this is jacopo cast number eighty four with equatorials and me jocelind evening ah good evening gentlemen your life expectancy from the day you join your battalion will be
precisely three weeks the florid mustached major who dressed us at the small reinforcement camp a few miles from bayou obviously had misplaced at a misplaced sent of humour or i
should have been sack on second thought he definitely should have been sacked not that any of the dozen infantry saw alterns took the slightest notice of what to us with a
ramblings of an old fool he was probably no more than forty the fourth battalion the summer set light infantry was in one twenty nine brigade and was a pre war territorial army
battalion with close link with bristol and bath in the united kingdom till late june nineteen forty four it was a close knit unit which had almost been designated within a period
of forty eight hours on fifth of july three officers and sixty two other ranks were required as reinforcements between the fourteenth and the eighteenth of july a further twelve
of officers of whom i was one and four hundred and seventy nine other ranks arrived and even then the battalion was still below its full strength of thirty six officers and nearly
seven hundred and seas and men this will give some idea of the appalling level of infantry casualties which had to be accepted in or to enlarge the slender and volevano man de
beach head because i had the had had previous experience of six pounder and i tendons the commanding officer lippy lieutenant colonel h g lips go posted me as second in command to
the talons ain't i can't piton which consisted of six guns but my stay with the batoon were short and i was quickly sucked into the real infantry battle as commander of eighteen
poltoon in decuman on the thirty first of july immediately after the battle of brisked de company had just lost their commander him brathwaite who lost a foot and gained a
military cross and eighteen pucoon there commander so that right there is the beginning of a book that we're going to look at to day is called eighteen fulton threatened by a
guineaman jerry j a r y who was born in essex and nineteen twenty four joined the army in nineteen forty two as a private soldier nineteen forty three was commissioned and from
nineteen from july of nineteen forty four until june of nineteen forty five he served as the petonar p eighteen boend the chances of survival for infantry subaltern in a rifle
company during the campaign and north west europe or slim most survived for only a few weeks senyder survived ten months from july nineteen forty four we took a man of eighteen
protoneiron de on till the end of the war their bremen in early may have nineteen forty five so this guy this is this is amazing this guy so neger he the only plotting commander
in the any british second army to survive as a platoon commander from normandy to the germans render one guone guide than this is the guy the isis amazing and you're going to see
that his attitude is i mean the the lessons that he learned he was young coming in we tuonetar's old twenty year old to clanconan in experience canalised life you got to check up
some pictures of him he he has that look to the washout he looks like now sheltered to the sea little young whipper snapper so well go back to the book here as he breaks down one
of bottinas at this time the nineteen forty four the war stablishment of a british impaction was thirty six men it consisted of three rifle sections each of ten men including a
brangane each commanded by a corpo or sometimes a land sergeant there was also a small pucoon head quarters with a two inch mortar attachment a pat which was of antitank weapon
the platoon sergeant and a commanders batman flash runner on july thirty first eighteen fortune consisted of seventeen all rex twelve more recent reinforcements hill one twelve
and bricked had claimed the rest though something about that ursus to have thirty six people in your poon and they have seventeen of which twelve are replacements which means that
twenty nine people had had been casualties the seven people that had been near killed rode bursar seven people out of the thirty six that hadn't been killed wounded that remained
in the paturot so that's what we're talking about here and again he's come in no combat experience he rolls in and going back to be i sense the instant we that he tight grip was
required particularly so because those few who survived hill one twelve had witnessed what was without a doubt the most horrific tragedy that befell the battalion during the
entire campaign three about to explain what they had been through he wasn't therefore it but he knew and he had heard what they had been through and monitaya again this is the
most horrific tragedy for the entire campaign is what their coming off of in this whose contakes over for as what they had been through back in the book during a nut during a
company night attack one of our soldiers had been hit in the lower chest by a rifle or machine gun bullet passing through his body it did not kill them outright the bullets
devilish course lay through the soldiers webbing equipment pouch which contained a seventy seven fast for a smoke grenade which exploded caught on barbed wire the poor soldier lay
disembowled for all around to see his writhing body a smoking mass of burning phosphorus responding to his agonized screams to put him out of his misery his baton commander shot
him through the heart then finally through the head after the poor man's final frenzied please not there sir through the head dog proctor was witness to this sublimely courageous
incident which seared itself upon all our hearts so that's what you're going to take over for king can you do that i mean is that like legal in a like they found out that that
appen i have no idea what the legal ramifications are but the moral weight on the shoulders of the men that witness that is is unbelievably it is hard to imagine what that angels
like back to the book to the inces sergeant jim kingston and corpl dug proctor immediately reported to me and explained forcedly and in great detail the poor state of the platoon
as they knew it to be self you've got these guys these the senior and listed guise in the potuan jim kingston and and dug propryeter lot about em and they're coming to her her new
guy checking in and their common to man and there you know gotelind him how at one a bad state the plutonist back to book while they did so ours conscious of being weighed up was
i fit to be there potenciana they were responsible anxious and discriminating entos that stands for non commissioned officer to the senior listed guys and my apprenticeship was to
start immediately they were startled by my attire previously warned by a young officer rode foughten to nesia that battle dress was most unsuitable for brabante i'd come prepared
in sand coloured cardrosses and a stout pullover not on like that now worn throughout the army among my prejudices was an acute dislike of steel helmets they gave me headaches on
exercises in england i had been obliged to wear one but the surge of individualism which now in golf me convinced me that this was an article equipment best left out about so he's
he shows up and he's kind of dressed out of uniform doesn't want to wear his holes worn in wardrop back to book that schools in england had insisted that of the infantry officers
should wear the same equipment and dress as their soldiers the idea being that they could not be then be so easy identified by enemy snipers they also decreed that one should
carry a rifle or a stand gun clearly this was ridiculous how on earth could your own soldiers recognize you in the heat of battle if he went through such lengths to disguise he
had the same the same attitude as a tenant league career that was wearing the orange vestrem ber that tie could be identified in battle by his own men that's what this guy's out
if you discourse like a mole thing you do beat the need know who that that i am out there how can they need be able to see me back to book i dispense with a rifle or stand gone
too because i'm hope was we short sighted and i did not fancy trying to command a poltoon while got up like a christmas tree meaning concertina bunch of gear as a concession to
impending battle i sported a forty five colt automatic pistol with two spare magazines the thirty eight and field revolver then general issue throughout the army managed to
command tonacatlecoalt with complete ineffectiveness was fired to sick shots from one at a target pined to apply wood board none of which even penetrated the board neither did i
hit the target which gave me a little confidence in this weapon the nine pounds i paid for the colt proved a sound investment so there's a lot of people that like the talk about
what i poosie arm there you got a big proponent for the colt forty liebold classic again important to remember that he's not even carrying a rifle because he knows his job as
sleep nicetown we had to see all sea leaders that would spend too much time on their gun i would say a you know what these to carry in the ring corn that army furled you know that
carry the carryest fergive me a rifle and we take it from like you need to be leading not shooting lacetania latter it's very etlita about his mentality which was he wants to
shoot ye he sortais you know these onseen you any realized i am out here to shoot my gun i himerou know be a high port and be off my gun and leading that's my job and these guys
took it to the point where there noticing a rifle now he talking about the senor leadership a little bit his mustershire back to googin kingston was short quiet and shy with the
shoe disforme although he had lived and worked in bristle all as life he barely raised his voice but had told command over his section there was no argument with jim that that's
another thing i find about this book this book i i it takes a sommanthe from from sinecure on down like this stereotyper just out the window of the wayness paton was an there's a
class example you you picture the senior listed guide as bow you know gunny highway scenario not appenin now he married talks about dug proctor back to book dug prop proctor
although a summer set came from nottingham also short he was positive direct with unfailing common sense and like jim quietly dominated his section so there's another and i got to
see some ingratiates there's a guy that were in whereinto bruiser that were quiet when they were in too bruiser and when i was putting them through their network up i was thinking
myself he tenino be able to step up and leaving that exactly how they did it right there they were just like quiet professional and and throwing but they run their mouth to get it
done back to the book i had not previously met any polton like this one they were quiet thoughtful and unbrace of soldiers there was little swearing and there existed a
tranquillity in their relationships with one another their eyes implored me not to fail them two factors were immediately apparent firstly the petuntur quiet fum and confident
leadership so that's a good assessment on continued guys don't need anybody yelling out and here's this second point secondly if i failed to use my imagination and slavishly
followed the battle school drills most of the potion would not survive another major battle so all the things he learned a standard typical stuff that he learned that wasn't in or
and it had not that's what that so many replacements comin back to a book in fact the problem that faced me with eighteen fulton was identical to the one facing gentle montgomery
are army group commander how to fight in defeat did cream of the aspens are divisions in the close norman norman bocage and still retained sufficient infantry rifle men to live in
fight to morrow the problem was a difficult one obviously i must set an example and always lead from the front however if i became over eager and got myself killed wounded the
whole object of my previous training an marstons ibility to my poltoon would be cast away i would in fact be letting down eighteen bultos he knows i got a leave him fontan sat on
a nosedive hum he knows got a stay alive and this norman delighting her he talks about nor may do being a defenders paradise meaning when you're on the defense in normandy it's
it's a paradise for the people on the defense which was the germans that we book we fought from the one hedge road to the next up tortuous overgrown sunken lanes ideal country for
the german defender but appalling for attacking infantry however no arm but infantry could take and hold the norman de bocage be conscious like a trees shrubs mingled together it
was here that i served my apprenticeship and the platonized its character which despite constant depletion by casualties over the coming ten months it would retain until the end
of the war it was also here that in perceptibly i became possessive with a ten bolton it was mine to be darted with an amassment jealousy that resented all criticism of my shot
soldiers that's building at this point most important it was in the bocage that i began to appreciate how vital is great grip on one self grip on one soldiers and grip on the
situation on like characters in novels and films most men reacting nervously to real battle conditions disappoint and regimental pride or support but in decisive moments of great
danger the grip of the leader on the lead is paramount infantry section cotoner's must possess the mind and heart of their soldiers strength of character is not enough successful
leash in battle although complex any intangible always seemed to me to depend on two factors first week soldiers must have confidence in their leaders professional ability and
secondly they must trust them as men so there you begotton erence your belitsum and this trust hope comes up all the time and i use the word relationships can interchangeably with
trust i i always have to remind myself to point that out that when i'm talking about relationships and building relationships and business on the battle field and life
relationships or trust that's what they are yet i ybuilt your la'ship on trust her and i guess you could have you know relationships at aren't belponts had those of like another
thing you don't oh i have relationship with that gud but you know yes but that's nothing that's all time of the real dog relationship yer bose are based on trust and those
obviously the othean most important thing to him so first his confidence in their ability and second his trust i like this port it helps too if a leader has the reputation of
being lucky field marshal montgomery placed great importance on the principle of making the enemy dance to your tune nowhere is this mornton than in potone company battle it is
decisive because if you do not dominate a vent your enemy will there you go that's gipsire there be fire for ye you've got to be first he got a dictate the pace you've got a you
got to be proactively to the book sound leadership like true love to which i suspect is closely related is all powerful i can overcome the seemingly impossible and it's a fact on
both leader and led is profound and lasting even after the passage of forty years brief mention of the battalions finest officers and entos bring he brings a smile to the faces of
the survivors of my platoon there resentment of those who failed to lead when it mattered most still roans astonishingly deep so leadership can overcome seemingly impossible this
wide leadership as most important on the battlefield now he's going into his stetsonian in this is based on his experience which were about to get into than he is deesmess more
more tormouth what he learned about leadership as a whole but he hated a kind o understand what he went through in figure out where he learned it from the first his first command
in battle here we go back to the book we were to attack this rugged hill from the west with the fifth will cheers honour right and the fourth willsher's in reserves the the
approach marched to our forming up place had been a nightmare of swirling a brace of dust shelling and the stench of exhaust fumes from the tanks which transported us forward we
were due to attack at fifteen hundred hours with a company leading on the right and be company on the left we followed beauman be company moved off quickly with our company to
play about three hundred yards behind their forward puccoons had barely crossed the stream when concentrated spandau fire came from the front and from both flanks so spend now
fire this is kind of anerton that the briched for german machine guns no primarily talking about the enjoy two witches a big belt fed machine gun very similar to a modern hawe
have an sixty or marked forty eight michigan big heavy belch bell fed machine gun wished lays down the insane a mouth of suppressive fire so he rigotte getting hit from both
flanks from with these machine guns back the book there must have been about twelve machine guns firing at one time this devastating display of fire power stopped the battaline in
its tracks there was no way forward or around it and no way to retire some of the guns had engaged de company over the heads of becomen and private morris in eighteen polton was
killed so there his first guy lost i like this away he starts off this next sentence here first word powerless so he's in his first combat situations got one man killed a houseful
powerless her regal powerless and crouching in a hedge row i tried to identify the span olaston this proved impossible as they still kept up their crushing display of fire power
in my ignorance i expected that the enemy machine gutters would soon expend their ammunition they did not nor did they in dozens of subsequent battles sir he's waiting for them to
stop shooting they don't the discessum captain scammel commanding a company with severely wounded major thomas commanding be company was killed their companies were badly caught
up on our right the fifth will cures had fared no better with their seal killed and cattle his mounting their attack also foundered as the afternoon turned to evening shelling and
morderauge much of a passing over her head this isolating us from the reserve battalion so that the germans are more dring over their heads so that the reserve italian get to him
shortly before dark a troop of tanks arrived one of which was able to cross the stream and give us some brave close support undoubtedly eating crease or moral but it was not
enough to get the whole attack under way again any movement by be company to our front brought down instant and concentrated span affirm the same applied to us a few hundred yards
to their rear fortunately the enemy did not seem to have any anti tank guns so our alere friends were comparatively safe but the fact remained that about twelve spans had halted a
battalion attack without or locating even one of them that's what suppressives that's what that's what but a big machine gun does you got twelve big machine guns the stopping
seven hundred people from moving that's called suppressive fire that's why you don't you heard roger had an talk about how how many have you weapons that how many machine does
they'd garry they think they had nine out o malwine fourteen that's why i as dusk fell a new plan was made seein de companies would advance in single file through a by companies
and using the cover of dark darkness amputated the enemy position once through them we re climb to the top of hill and consolidate a cold and damp miss descended which with fading
light gave us welcome cover but also wretched discomfort we were still insured sleeves which became damned from the sweat of our exertion climbing the steep lower slopes a lark
with pistol and hand i anticipated a sudden brush with an enemy post not a shot was fired by some miracle we passed right through their positions without being to deck dejected or
lucence so you're going to see of quite a bit of that is as they what the germans were doing at this point defending hard but then instead of staying in dying in most cases they
would retreat and so they'd fight really hard for a while and then retreat and they did mancetter but ouronty a lot of that back to the book we now had to advance across a large
orchard so i deployed the polton with two sections up and urged them forward as fast as possible suddenly in the middle of orchard we came across a young girl in a clean white
dress sitting with her back to an apple tree sketching now i just talked about the demosthenem things that happen in combatants is one i'm talking about and how do you train for
that how would you ever if you running a battle problem to train people would going to do put a white grown a white dress in sitting with a back to a tree sketching doesn't make
any sense how do you deal with it nocktock she seemed quite oblivious to the mortifie in eighteen fulton war like appearance how to stop pretty young girls from interfering with
battle had not been part of my training as an all circaea nor had appeared on the curriculum of any battle schools which without exception had despaired of my future as an
infantry soldier fortunately there was a farmhouse beside the orchard and it had a caller where she was persuaded to shelter while he got on with our batting i reported what it
occurred to a company commander who told me that i was being quite ridiculous really jerry you're being absurd with that remark i realized that he had been a schoolmaster a breed
with whom i had been in conflict until quite recently a breed with whom i've been in conflict with until quite reasoning so this guy has the the attitude of a schoolmaster which
in england is little bit different and especially in the nineteen thirties and forties to know the strict i think of a pink floyd you know the head master how can you have a
putting if you don't eat your meat that guy that's what he is comparing them to his next sarcastic remarked i would be obliged jerry you would kindly get on with the war he gave
me a little indication of what he wanted by patented nor did it inspire competence we were still over two hundred yards from the meadow surrounded by corn fields which was the
company's objective it now became apparent that our company commander had an academic and detached to attitude of mind which made it quite impossible for him to command the
company so the companies comedy waters on the game there's one thing to be detached from your emotions to make sure you're not getting called up in the mayhem but another thing to
be so detached that you're not even aware of what's going on and actually i had a name for this when i was running training bat'll feel aloofness is what i called his age these
guise he gets these guys and we'd be run in these crazy battle field problems on them and ever noted to be crazy and you'd go i remember one time there's a t the tasking to
commander basaltes may him going on the tutor get overrun and people are getting me or shot with pain ball and the not heating their objectives and i walk over the company
pantheizing in a humvee command of the troop commander he sitting in a home vee and i like at the window up because they're both windows but he is on a haupapa but windows up he
just sitting in her is got his head set on it was radio knock on the door i'm like a man you know oh what what's going on out there is a a a man i'm trying to gather that
information right now and all my broganeer ease her but dust ye ye need to get out there makes up an appetite cause his idea was you know i need to be detached yet which i dare
into that's all a time but there's a difference between being and its see the same thing in business as where the the the boss or the leader has no idea what's happening on the
ground for rights no what the the workers are doing to he so far to tache that he's he's you know let them be cakeries where that's where this gulathal what they they just in a
wages them to just handle it on their own i think they're gonna handled on their own which is a good attitude to have untenanted le it any more ritratta can't one at once a team
or a poltoon or a business eunica handle with all their own and their failing you have to give you have to go do your job you to step up not to step down you have leader you have
to get in there and is more that stuff away ye yes so it's that without the geina where it's just like a ducal me when it's done herein and and the problem is somebody's got a
short piece problems out yea yea there there there real you and and you're not getting better and you might take you a minute go kay what is aconita thesprotis aren't gain better
what i do once you realize that in our going better you got to get in her meganite yea this guy's not doing that back to the book he'd be behaved bakester selous umpire on an
exercise in england at any moment i expected him to admonish me for bad tactics and the schoolboy and be feared that i might be sent to the head master for beating so that
continue on we seized the highest point which faced the enemy and the other petunduc ly deployed to give all around a fence of the other flanks after being morgarten any required
no incouragement to day gin throgmorton getting more will make you shovel hard and yet the company commander walked round the poconos tions eying every one with distaste nothing
pleased him and he suddenly announced that he must sleep which he did in my slice gettin a good feeling about this company mander just looking at every one like negatively sandhen
almost unnonst sleep on like this guy and orses peekin in my trench oh now this is good there's another officer that's there that's present a guardianias watching over us in the
guise of danascara dennis some years older than me was except kind to me and tolerant of my immaturity patenson as his good he took my took me by the arm a few paces away from my
protoneiron of this shambles sonny i muttered the un commencing as planation that it was our company commander looking me straight in the eye he drew a deep breath which managed
to express both exasperation at my explanation and sympathy with my predicament you and i know that he is not so what are you going to do about it i asked if i should take command
his expression hardened yes you bloody well should some demonstration of loyalty to my wretched company commander was obviously required i blurted out that he was really a school
master and not a professional soldier so kind o defending him dennis put his onerous under and whispered in my ear so was i sunny so that's awesome the company commander is not
leading in this this guidance cuttin he's an artillery gunner pulled his gushed a sidecar better take charge of this and you better do it quick back to bowie now well dug in on
our objective the company commander was still asleep then as was the ranging defensive fire tasks for me i had assumed a man of de company without a word passes in between our
company commander and me in practice it made not the slightest difference because because like a bad preparatory school master he saw his role as one of examination and criticism
this he continued to do despite the incredulous stairs of the incas so he taken church and any he has even said anything he has done it he is took charge and all the guy the guys
continued to walk round the did stare glare at every one but the dozen matter so this is a classic example you leaders not leaving it i'll give the answer so many times but this
is a classic this might be one of the best examples you leave not leading that's fine good step up on leader self m back to the book by dawn the enemy had retired and elements of
the italian moved forward to consolidating strength and de companies position the whole operation was very amateur there was no doubt that the new company commander could not
command a company in battle nor could i who is just beginning to master the rudiments of commanding amplitude he was removed within a few hours i think denis had something to do
with it but he was not the kind of man to confide in twenty year old subalterns so that another classic thing right there is that this guide denis who was another officer probably
went and said get this guy out of your get this company commander out of you but when he does it the company commander gets removed and an he hasn't saneti to sit eger he doesn't
reared it out or brag about her make a big deal he doesn't see anything just happened and he's like what i had a etnean my belton and the commanding offers an no one of fire that
i want you guys get out o here shut your mousepace to work no yorky and then a few days will olee later he got fired but he it wasn't because of us as far as we know her i don't
want any the we just knew you fired eh what reason men and we we had something to do with that but same thing so you don't need to create a distrust and disloyalty and and
divinest those words but you don't need to create drama yea if it don't interamnates going going somers getting old somers and you go warn everybody ye yeah we're not doing that
ye were not doing that when i building up our only ago yea by disparaging someone else's let's worry about the whole team iyetsuna good idea to me i back the book i now have
little doubt that for the first two months in normandy we lack two things comprehensive an imagnie training and personal experience of battle we are also seriously handicap by our
casual attitude too many junior officers did not think for themselves and persistently relied on the narrow teaching of battle schools whose dogma had assumed the proportion of
holy writ or whatever he was taught he was not that the old way you can ever do it and these guys that have a taruman times on the on the poast the god when i was running training
was to actually get the people to think i wasn't gossures you have to establish the base lines tattered opening perseus that's great and these need to be roxalanne those things
are established you need to make people understand that you don't always fall o them and you need to call off a piece that stander operating prigionier some other thing and
bringing another percenter operating mesenteric matches that you get something at the active you need to think as what i lead any to do at leadinist back yore british in partial
tones and companies were over trained and bored stiff with basic in patriotics which as far as they went were good much as the training of fortunately had been in the hands of
battle schools truckers who themselves lacked battle experience and imagination these tend to become pedagogs disciples of des directing staff solution about which no argument
could be tolerated so desistence in a bunch a that's the resolution the directing staff can argue with them there the stercora possibly like most of our entry infantry they
suffered some consequences of the pre war shortage of creativity intelligent regimental officers to few of them were professionally dedicated to the extent that they could
visualize how battles would be fought and identified the problems that might arise when planning them they seemed to lack the capacitie will let lesley through these things until
solutions were found much of their time had been spent policing the british and pire also on like the germans we british instinctively avoid displays of kineness the enthusiast
particularly if he is innovative is an embarrassment thus the battle field became our teacher and inevitably it exacted a grim price in blood and time so as your training you got
through poterel hard you've got an put yourself in situations and i'll care what you're cranfordians for combat in a seal platoon in your army infantry poltoon or if you're in the
business one and your training you are leaders to handle situations are your training your customer service rap to handle situations what no matter which one of those euren you
need to push people heard you need to put him in worse case nary a sedate need to learn how they need to learn how to think to get out of those problems i recall within barreme
and the incident at forty fifth infantry divisional battle school during the spring of nineteen forty four and except ly tall and good natured canadian officer had been sent to
the school to give a talk on the street fighting heed experienced nataly it was an interesting talk but some of his advice ran contrary to that being taught in the school when the
lecture was over the chief instructor with insulting condensation thank the shy and kindly man for a vivid word picture and turning to the students warned us that at as this
officer's experience was probably unusual we had best not stray from the d s solution as taught at that school so he got combat veteran come and back with experience from shrink
fighting in italy and he come back with some different tactics and they tell him of you dollishness a rare case closed mind willecok this is his starting talk about they are over
all sort of formulation of combat plans and how they operate it back to the book the most successful actions by eighteen poton were fought without the support of artillery or
armour we had learned in a hard school how to skirmish infiltrate and adaray forward the right or left flanking petunia so beloved of the battle school staff would rarely succeed
in the normandy bocage i remember with horror being locked in the time tables of meticulously planned larged battles these invariably left the junior inturned no scope for
exploitation if you found a gap in the enemy to fences and hereinto artillery programme which rarely could be altered effectively stopped any personal initiative so what that sais
you have these the artery that's goin to drop bombs they're goin to balm or strike with artillery at certain regions in certain times so lee my teienei running away and you have a
chance to gain a superior tact position but you can't because you know that that's where the bombs are going to at what you're telestat in the next twelve minutes so you can't go
so now you sitting wait so yet locked in by that back to the book to me the preparations for these battles assumed the demented proportion of a cough kalihe night mare bagley in
which the anonymous they ordained that we must perform a cardiograph that rich will dance maka i felt trapped and helpless no solo parch were written in the score nor was their
scope for small groups of performers in this man of dole of machines undoubtedly far shadows from the sum of the bowood ed my emotions but instinct told me that this kind of show
would be unlikely to succeed the irony was that this support was planned and given to the infantry with the best of intentions the soul had cast its shadows on our artillery and
armored commanders both genuinely believed that their hands they that in their hands they had the pence which would protect us the infantry from the terrible slaughter of nineteen
sixteen instead they put us in a straight jacket so very interesting viewpoint and and it's something that we need to pay attention to because you've got to be flexible you ought
to be flexible not exactly we stakeout and these they would make these plans that were so comprehensive and there was no warnow to deviate from the plants in went allowed to
deviate from the plans and something starts going differently the wind you expected you trapped her fondak the book for to which time had been spent fitting the infantry and armor
junior leaders into the big picture and two little time spent training them and stimulating their imagine nation and mitaine and individual resourcefulness to probe draw
conclusions infiltrate and exploit weakness in the enemy's dispositions so he's these cruising this lack of initiative lack of creak of the end training to get that in it of the
creativity back to book after the first of august eighteen button never failed in any attack sometimes we took a little longer than planned but we always got there in the end in
defence we never lost one yard of ground nor do the enemy ever pet penetrate or potensi ion and we always dominated no man land with our patrols whether persistent patrolling is
always down policy i will argue elsewhere so he sent once he kind of figured it out that in los any more they didn't lose any attacks and they didn't give up any ground for about
the armour or arm was a cue to being tiger shy meaning from scared of the tiger tanks on the germans and i don't wonder why the devastation called by a single hit of an e mineter
armor piercing shell need to be seen to be believed and this is an over all statement for the infantry in armor of the british second army the sheer ferocity of the fighting in
normandy came as a solitudeor shock for which they were in some ways on prepared so it was devastating for these guys that now we start pushing out out of a allenarly and pushing
into the sin and he regather posing in the next day twenty eight august de company occupied hericourt as is the only operation of war that i ever known to go precisely as plant or
supporting field regiment softened up the objective with their twenty five pounders the companyand over open farm land in a maculate formation and consolidated exactly on time the
only thing lacking was an enemy total bag one dazed german one dead german and one dead hare rabbit room so the only one that ever went well was when there was no enemy to fight
against the waste was two germans one of them was dead the other was dazed and that was there the last battle in france back to the book experience in normandy had removed
anxieties regarding commanding an under strength potent he hasn't had enough men he spelt aftertimes had like seventeen eighteen nineteen in the attack particularly at night a
potent full strength is just too big to manurial three rifle sections of about twenty above about seven men each plus head quarters was ideal in defence it was a different matter
the more riflemen on the ground the better or short stay in the men sounion gave me time to think the first opportunity to do so since i took command of eighteen button and also
gave me time to meet and talk with other young officers in oitalian it was then that i realised that eighteen button was no ordinary polton it had some undefinable magic no
quarrels little swearing despite the war that was the despite the war there was something peaceful about it a helping hand was always available for anybody the emotional links
were firm and true i was a happy man till you realizes one who starts stockingth other potentates he's got this really special potuta gets along great and ease he realized his
back to a book no young officer can command a petulantly on his own in normandy i'd seen patton commander served by poor and siostra to gain some sambon control over their
bewildered and frightened men i also seen potions with good and theos go to pieces in the hands of an indifferent officer jim kingston dog proctor and owen jesmin set the standard
and tone for eighteen polton without them i as a potenciana what have joined the ranks of so many poor young officers who never achieved grip now going to another is printing
ether another plan as their advancing in an obviously this is a long book i am doing an abridged version hiding some elight you should get the book i obviously get the book by the
book macavahu dred hours on twenty fourth of pember douglas this is the new company commander douglas douglas held a long a group by candle light in the cellar of the farmhouse at
which must his annoyance i kept falling asleep we were ordered to advance straight eastward down a narrow country lane from the orchard to the main road and consolidate after the
o group and o group was what they called it in with their officers get together and passed the word they called ogre after the oopi made myself unpopular by asking why readvancing
towards an area of considerable german opposition when my petrolium better route by which we might outflank the enemy so that so he say hey wait wi cause at his patrol his petunia
patron found a better route and his asking the why an he kind o get shut down i was just twenty years old at the time and even then i knew i was incapable of disputing orders
without giving offence we started a zero six hundred hours two patoon leaving on either side of the track of third falling in single file down the track itself on either side were
the small holdings were small holdings a few allotments and bungalows surrounded by small picket fences a patuone through the gardens and vegetable patches and passed on either
side of the bungalows the rear section searching each one quickly and while their searching these obongos is thrown patrol they find this back to the book during one of these
hurried searches one section found a dutch family the windegs father mother son and daughter riddled by smiter that's german mission gun they lay in awkward postures of the deaf
amid their ransacked a visit from the ass no tears came nor did they come a half an hour later when he came upon the charred wreckage of an american dakota it had carried us
perishers the eighty second air borne to vision and their torn and bunodes littered the orchard like chad and mutilated ragnall's there was a further iner irony attached to the
front window and what remained of the dakotas cockpit was a tiny teddy bear untouched by flames two months before a lonely teddy bear and an impersonal pool of blood had brought
forth cheers now i was collected and objective when faced within the span of thirty minutes with an atrocious murder and mass carnage by fire and he referring there in the
beginning of the book one of his first experiences he is by a slit trench and there is a added guy soldier in it and there's a little teddy bear and an verse reason you know he's
young he did experience in against it makes him supermon starting alight and and now he's a little further in the war he sees you know this horrible murdered family and these
tragically you know burned and killed parturates able to detach emotionally from it back to the book the envy decided to make life unpleasant for us as possible by sudden
unpredictable concentrations of heavy artillery right in the middle of her company area we called them stalks so he's going to use that word masoretic bombed one of these shells
unfortunately fell right into one of sixteen polton slittungs no trace remained of the two men that were manning in it many a brain in my petonar al jack lee and private peter
file were buried in the trench they shared other members of their section quickly dug them out on harmed very dirty and remarkably cheerful the self propelled guns increased their
activities filling the sky above the company with ugly black air bursts they could place these with uncanny accuracy to burst about twenty five feet above the road junction
outside company head quarters the casualties mounted company sergeantmajor sammy jones and spot martin g bredier were both hit outside company cut it was same jones who committed
to batalions only atrocity late one summer evening as the shadows from high trees and hedges fell across a small field and normandy we took some young waffen soul walton esse
soldiers prisoner one of them are short stocky and fair youth of about eighteen proved insultingly truculent seizing the young loud by the scruff of his neck samiraa you can take
that glen out of your eyes my boy and putting the wretched youth across his knees he gave his back side a sound whacking that is legion that again you city jerriest how proud is
that his men it is man's behaviour is so standing throughout this whole miserable experience and even when they see atrocities committed like by the ass the still maintain their
disappointed and their character and this is this is what he does your little punk kid among a spank you i tuffles soldier didn't put over the kneepan so after the attack so now
as this is again it is happening after one of these attacks and and the whole the whole basic premise in this book this attack rest attack rest attack rest so as reading em kind
of pit picking out some of the attacks at their going on in there just moving through france and then to germany that's what it is i should explain that earlier ah but this is
after one of the attacks it's interesting he says this smiling faces vanished and the gray look returned once more men walked with one air cocked in the air for approaching shells
and with a slight stoop or you remember him he is tugging nest on but how like you see guys they have this in adroit tle student ye that's what he stockington and j p didn't have
tell stewart you know staying like you stop less you was not yet he was stopless up ready to get some but these guys as and his contrasted as when they're on the attack they going
to like gemote stand up straight the rat gets on but then once there on the defense and their swineshed they start to stoop they started crouched a little bit he continues back to
the book the jokes began to peter out and the cheerful good morning sir ceased when i went around the potuans at stand to moral was always higher during an attack sitting around
and being shelled as not an occupation to be recommended so there's a good lesson there if do you or your team is being defensive about things you marais going to go down but you
wait get hit sir gone his somebody you know go on the attack and don't wait around don't let your moral ground here's another attack back to look scrambling out of the cover we
set a fast pace up the side of the road to a company's positions this immediately brought small arms fire down on us but by then we were then two hundred yards of their
slitheriness so on we ran as fast as we could being soaked i begin to steam my boots squelched and seemed to drag me back clawing at my feet as in a bad dream and stopping me from
reaching the inviting cover of the slittungs a company was dogging with two platoons forward in an orchard face to face the enemy who were in died only a few yards beyond the
third button was to the right rear protecting the open flank and company head quarters to the left rear catered on some farm buildings it was to these farm buildings that we ran
hurlies on to the straw on the barn floor we lay panting and gasping for breath john a cock a company commander appeared round the door of the barn he looked haggard and worn i
doubt he had slept for a week the whole company area was covered by the most intense spendour and defensive and the defensioner was one of fire supremacy which the germans had
undoubtedly won a companies moral was low they had just lost harry barnes one of the potion commanders who refusing to take cover strutted about in his usual manner he took a
complete burst of spando fire under the arm harry was an amazing and fearless fellow who didn't care a damn for anything even after the burst hid him he still lived for about
three hours the men respected harry and with their idle shot down in fond of them they were very jumpy another time you after watch out from her own obviously now if you remember
this book started in the summer time and now or starting to get towards fall and this this is something i'd never thought about before when falcons you know the sun is up first
order period of time very real back to the book the nights became longer and the dawn grey and chilly the sunsets were red and vivid and the days though beautiful short and
rapidly as the night lengthened the hours of stag length and and with them the mental and physical fatigue of the company so they have to stay after stay up you know grotto
watches at night you just don't get to free the whole time so if it's if it's dark for a longer you got to stay awake longer at night hum so that suttain to wear on the company
itself back to book there was there is one incident small room when remembered by itself in a life of such incidents but very but to me very vivid in my platoon there was a young
lad aged eighteen named bite he was of slight of build fair and looked a mere child he had a pleasant personality and was liked by every one he had joined the company at
lamentation after we had crossed the san advenam in august one morning there was a crack and a short interval silence soon shot went out stretcher bearers echoed through the
orchard i ran towards the commotion and saw birthing in agony on the ground at first he looked on her but as i tore open his tunic i saw a clear wound through his abdomen coming
out by his spine he soon became known and was no longer in pain but was very frightened and shivered we dragged him back behind the house and applied field dressings to his
stomach and his back and case the wound started to bleed his young life solely ebbing from his body or stretcher bearers quietly and reverently carried him away the scene is now
through pointed to remember without shedding a tear after bindle had been evacuated the moral of the baton dropped the had been hit or standing in this selected a snapper at least
three hundred yards away and you know it is interesting and i didn't go into this part and is a part earlier in the book where he he basically disparages somewhat the use of
snipers and talks about how they usually don't gain you anything tactically but it's interesting what it does to the moral pleton isn't it then he now he doesn't complete he
explains it there's uses and there's believe me there's probably no bigger believer in the use of snipers in the world than me but it's interesting yet he he basically beginsel
he's a very a a guy with you know the extremely high moral character and he kind of gets the feeling when he explained it that you know he didn't feel comfortable at sniping
because people are expecting it there's not a battle happening he felt like it was a cheap shop must but it's interesting the effect that had actually as long his poont's moment
here were going to get to a point escalera or in a dike just ahead of it eighteen between an eighteen purtendin of pin down and remember this character from earlier denis clark
dennis clark was the with the guy tauld him as in that a unedo take man osculan well like i said dead is carried i found i remember and i was right dinners clarke isa was in
artillery guide called an artillery so he re go not to book i was saved by captain dennis clark m s arcane gunner dennis had a virtuoso toward twenty five pounders were concerned
sniping with one gun that should get the buggers out he said with coal confidence moving his nineteen set into my tethered moving is nineteen set in my poconos tion no easy task
in daylight he gave us a display of the most brilliant professionalism we had come to expect from the ninety four field regiment by firing with only one gun and making his mean
point of impact beyond the dyke containing the germans he slowly decreased the derange yard by yard until one shell exploded in the dike out came five very wet and shaken panser
granadeers during this episode all the pucuna to remain in the bottom of their licences because denis's shells came over our positions with minimum clearance i doubt if any
experienced infantry officer would deny that the royal artillery during the second world war were the most professionally competent people in the british of erin so again an
interesting dichotomy because in the beginning he talks about how the artillery contract them because its being used in this brogan the flocking in with as no deviation but here
he saw him at how brilliant it is because he's directly coordinating with it he's explaining to the artillery officer were to put those rounds what the problem is and then letting
the arterial or solve it so there's a dichotomy there just like there's the conomy with the capers back to the book after a few more days in the orchard we were becoming
increasing the exhausted and our fighting efficiency deteriorated this condition existed not only in my company but throughout the battalion consequently the news of a move back
to rest came as a class war colossal relief to us all but we did not know who is going to take over our positions the take over was to be at night and was to be carried out as
quickly as possible if the enemy discovered it a determined attack caused endless confusion and slaughter during the late afternoon of one particularly unpleasant day douglas
superatomic manner appeared with an american captain and two lieutenants from a paris shop italian of the hundred and first airborne division they patteron the company area in
their rubber soled boots with the eyes of the whole company following them to the hundred first is coming into relief him having reconnoitered our area the americans returned to
the company he cut discuss administrative points for the tao the plan was fit american company commander to bring his company down the main road in single file along the edge of
the ditch when the head of the column reached our company cue they would be met by guides from each of our poltons to lead the american buttoner positions as soon as they were on
the ground arbutus were withdraw and assemble on the road this may sound simple in practice at but at night in close contact with the enemy it certainly was not this type of
operation leaves two companies particularly vanable during the hand over a determined enemy could attack and turn the operation into a massacre this is one of anastaseos the
pocket one of the hardest things to do is licuit friendly forces on the battle field and of your under fire it's it's even harder to this one or trying to do it and not under fire
try to sneak and make it happen back to the book the rest of the day was spent packing making sure the enemy noticed nothing of this anti activity re put our spare an ammunition
on to the carriers with great coats and blankets the whole afternoon was strangely quiet there was no activity from the enemy and we in turn kept quiet the sun went down a man a
fiery sky looking east the sky was threateningly grey i went around i went round my position to a sergeant kingston before the americans arrived all my men looked tired and could
hardly muster a smile as i went from slipslop many had contained two men and now contained only one together with some momento of his former mate a mass in or a blood stained
jacket even a packet of cigarettes went in limp with dew i wondered how many more moments would be there when the americans were relieved about an hour later the americans arrived
they loomed up in the darkness by the roadside patting along in their rubber soled boots without a whisper i thought at the time what splendid troops they were and how excellent
there aqui ment has a particularly impressed by the silent and quick way they were led by their squad commanders to are section positions so there come american relieve him
bounded and first airborne division whose just out standing soldiers their just bosom and we worked with them and be one of my pecooniary any work with the liver the first the
five six the band a brother in you can tell there the reputation that the guises and remade a hell that standard in every possible way but it's rooted all the way back to these
soldiers right here sounds that this is what struck me reread that is like all this this that that tradition of excellence in that unit has gone from world war two from de guys
right here and if that same attitude that i saw at guyrion the same attitude all right now he makes a statement here about this whole big operation which was called market garden
which was this giant operation to try and cut off the germans seized multiple bridges angers to wee bridges they were trying to seize and it it didn't reach it full of fact it
wasn't like a complete mission success they didn't it achieve every objective that they wanted to so he rioba the book market garden was a sad operation complete success coming so
close at a stroke the war in europe could have been finished in nineteen forty four undoubtedly mistakes were made both by the first airborne division particularly their planners
and also by thirty core and there was no shortage of that luck however in my experiences in my sperience of most battles are riddled with misfortunes and mistakes and the stir of
the sort found in this operation it was not a failure because the ground was taken and a precise to both operation veritable and the rhine crossing so wasn't like a tall failure
back to book i am convinced that had the supreme commander generalized howard given mark and garden the unqualified support that it justified it would have totally succeeded
despite its crop of packed towers and planning and acetone i suppose it was just one more casualty of the american mania for dispersal of effort however it was without a doubt the
most exciting an imaginatively planned that in which eighteen polton ever fought and i proud to have taken part so decarnate folks of effi talking about you if you spread yourself
out too then you're not going to get a going to make an happen we call that prior's next it what's the biggest priority let put our resources there then do that and it therefore
didn't get a fur mission success now of course what resources were there what was available there's no one has on the mind resources no one if you have that you have no issues
right cross problems with van valor aright so now the moving beyond more to garden and planning a actually planning he's planning at a patrol through a village back to the battle
school teaching at the time prescribed a strength of twelve to twenty for a fighting patrol derin my instincts in experience did not conform to their teacher these rabble how can
you command and control that number of men in the dark particularly in a skirmish douglas the compiegne tolerant of the absent absence of my opinions all these matters left the
planning to me so cooled douglass is little decentralized command you figure out your plan then i like this the composition of the petrol i based on personalities and not on a
battle school at ordained number to magenta your your planning bason the personalities of the individuals you have the country side being comparatively open a decided take a brand
gun being steady williams and filmer would fill the bill admirably if we ran into trouble they could provide confering fire for any assault we might make or if things went badly
they could cover our withdraw covered move obviously the assault party required strengthening so i decided to take a total patrol strength of six men of one brand with seven
magazines and three armed with stands we five magazines and for thirty six grades each cossipore cutters i carried my colt for gernade and a umbrella my umbrella had been a source
of amusement to the bones inside found on the roadside in muktear from keeping me dry in or out of a slit trench it was useful and prodding for mines and brought some fun and
colour to our lives jim kingston and dug proctor thought otherwise maintaining a disapproving silence which i failed to notice with so out out on patrol moving down the bank a
right we crawled forward in the mud and wet grass into were almost past the orchard from which came the sound of digging and voices suddenly a challenge came from our front
followed by a shower of stipends throne from a trench just inside the orchard on our left one of the grenades landed between my legs which were stretched out and spread apart as i
lay flat on the river bank there was no flash its explosion seemed muffled and more importantly owing to the soft mud i received not a scratch the game was up now the concentrated
fire of the three stands poured into the german in his prize germans putting away my pistol i threw three thirty six grenades in quick cession into the orchard heard me reaching
for my umbrella which eluded me and then ignominy ignominiously we be to rich so he gets a grave throughfare ad this appen in the rear some guys were out on patrol they were in
open field they had cover from one side cause they had pre planned how they recrossed his field and while they were out there they got hit with machine and fire and then more
dress and they got more to day and like all them and luckily because it was they were in like a muddy field like all rice pattison the mortars when they hit they went into the mud
and to the exploded but there was no all the distracts all sore by the mud that the lucky day for to brisebois were little hill fired up when he came back no one now they get back
into a defensive permit i remembered knights in defensive positions like grosbeak stretched out in a slicing trying to get an hour's sleep before going round the poltoos ition to
check that everything and every one was all right one felt and as dirty and in the small hours of the morning with bootlaces cutting into swollen feet a foul tasting mouth and an
aching stomach life had little to commend it the dirt and discomfort worried me more than the danger danger for some reason that i have never understood exhilarate but despite
every effort to keep clean it did not always prove possible and that was unbearable never once since i never want since have i not been grateful to sink into a hot bath or slid
into a bed with clean sheets we went to extraordinary lengths to keep the dirt at bay once in normandy i washed and shaved in the rain water in the deep ruts made by carts
afterwards i discovered that four hundred yards away the opposition had been overlooking my ablutions a decent lad who obviously approved of my personal higginsonian in killeagent
be clean when leathem continued machavoine the campaign eighteen between carried out three times of patrols recognisant standing and fighting the first two unvariable useful
because they provided information if only negative fighting patrols of which i led many were a different and contentious proposition on like the german and american armies we have
vigorous policy regarding fighting patrols but ticula night and when things were static on both sides on the defence the thinking behind this policy seemed to me at times to be
superficial and probably left over from the great war word or one if when detailed for a fighting pepato young officers queried the wisdom of its given object there was always the
standard reply i quite agree with you but it all helps to dominate no man's land there is undoubtedly a certain validity of this argument but was it worth the consequent loss of
good young officers and sees i doubt it shortly after the war i was able to briefly voice my reservations to my lustrious army group commander that's montgomery the way after
giving me my m c that's military cross ribbon he stepped back and said crisply patrolling his bloody isn't it when i stammered that it seemed a bit hard that it was always the
same people chosen for patrols he replied with a twinkle eye one day you'll command a batallion and you'll understand the problem for twenty year old subaltern exchanged like this
with a field marshal was heady stuff but montes mischievouser and attelage from possibly coupled with his single minded professionalism professionalism extended his personal
influence to the most junior soldier in twenty first army group we felt we knew him and that he knew as often he did so that's a great little interaction you know he says
patrolling his bloody work is in it and in sydney jerry says you and the thing is it seems like it's always the same futons that get made to do the patrolling and he says one day
when you're in charge of the talyunt nd why that is and the reason why that is can you got the good guy in that the guy you're going to send out your ontario the people that get
it done what is is interesting regatao of petrol that they're getting ready to have to go out on and the patrol was to probe between the roads and advance if possible as far as
the force beyond this its purpose was indeed vague douglas called me and another portion commander to company g cuneated it to us he then suggested we should prosecutor it an
embarrassing situation arose i fought that the winter would lead the patrol the other officer dismated that the loser would i lost the toss and got the job so so i at that
unwearying all right desanges petrol we're gonna have to do let's flip for it i'm thinking heads if i win i get to do the petrol you thinking you you win you don't after do the
patron not every one was quite as fired up a guess a sidier was and may they wrap up a relatively kind of a uneventful patrol relatively one of the ultra and he returned and there
having a cup of tea and some biscuits sire in true british form backbones then that i suddenly realized that i been commanding eighteen but to portree months to be precise three
months and two days before i joined of italian of midgely i'd been worn warned that my life expectancy would be about three weeks it seems strange to me now but at no time did i
anticipate being either wounded or killed i was just too busy for falsities and i become totally absorbed in my grim responsibilities in july i'd been ridden by doubt about my
ability in my innocence i expected success in battle to be the prerogative of a victor ludorum which is like the champion i now had no such doubts or allusions furthermore i
discovered just how much soldiers present and fear a young officer who sees battle as a means to win his spurs possibly at the cost of their lives so when you grow in and your
mister beating your chest anywhere he you're going to prove yourself to the world yea son'rous you're goin to write checks with my life and we don't like that my duty had become
clear to me it was to command a temptun with quiet confidence providing i made them only once my mistakes would be forgiven if my soldiers were to go were going to place their
very lives in my hands they in return were cried of me a serious attitude to my profession if i could achieve this with a light touch so much the better that an interesting combat
so you know he say look what they require a gaiters i got to be a serious a possible and the iffinger to ter minimum for required at you brepare at is a bouncer rias hey you got
to use the minimum for cigar i said what he saying is that as a leader the lighter touched the better the light is in touch you can use to lead his better that's pretty cool state
an that's a good thing to think about how can you lead with minimum force every time you go in you use more than you then you need you are you're over exerting right in who knows
what kind of you know you takin away initiative you might be stamping out beralsee with that man of undocile that so in this point there in a there in a position and there's three
of these mark three seventy five millimeter self propelled a solons kennel ook like tanks they got big tracks their germans their german and their enter sitting out the form of
them there to their static position the companies in static position had there these the tanks sitting there three of them and douglas looks at a mast fingerwise ay ironside may
look like their functioning they don't look damaged and so douglas is saying okay well we need to find out what's going on even there's no one even if there's no one in the right
now or could be a place where they used snipers later so some what's got a go checkout so said he jerry the guy he goes out alone can a sneak out there he did stuff alone but it
more often this actually does the philotas another story i i didn't mention but at one point there he hears no as blunt of the guys reports to night time in the hut to hear noise
in this field they think there's enemy out there an he's white while there's one way to find out so he iciodorum another guide in the case on brigaut and he's going through this
field and i take a corn field or something and he can't see any i horrified any trying to think of a reason to quit it is like i just want to go back assist smart and as he's as
this is taking place nesters climaxing almost sudden he hears on butacas and i feel her so you do it another solo operation here trying to find out what these tan like a salt gone
to doing out there back to the bolibine up above the tracks i put my head into the coulee which was open a familiar in terrible stanch hit me inside was a charnel house six inches
away a set of bare teeth set in unrecognizable black and incinerated lump grinned at me beside it a charred and bony arm reached up in agony spread on the floor like a pool of tar
laid the melted remains of the driver idete dante's inferno my head reeled and with my mouth nose and lungs filled with the stench of death i fell back to the ground although on
marked by fire and all on our side all three assoon had brodeur and were black and on their sides were faced the enemy with no stomach to look further i ran back to the company
for getting the look for american minds never again did i look into a knock out tankervell propelled gun i reported to douglas that nobody in their right mind would use them from
observation post to offer any other purpose later that day he asked that's tealess doleas the command room assermentie some armor piercing shells into each of them positioning his
tank hold down beside sixteen poltons positions which were to our left the tank commanders to take graders selected the assault gone i had visited his first shell had it slightly
above the tracks like the hammer of volcaner glow blossomed on the armor plate around the point of entry and slowly faded it was followed by a second and third shell until a
mirage heat appeared above it and for a second time the funeral pyre blazed with an incandescent ferocity the sherman gunner then turned his attention to the next of solon which
despite being penetrated by about six or erpei rounds failed to brew up his first shot at the third caused the massive internal dead nation no doubt due to ammunition stacked
within a volcano erupted from its coppola sending a dense cloud of black moth smoke and red sparks into the air a truly wagnerian end for the warriors in tuned within but it
revolted me for the rest of the day i blotted this communicated itself to my end ceos and soldiers who stole mystified glances at my grief for an unknown enemy during the
afternoon i wonder the cross the road to a lone house where denis car at his officer vation post i was looking for solace from a wise and good friend opposed to is filled with
gunner officers there must have been a dozen of them setting up their quiet in preparation for attack by two one four brigade this activity preceded and he solace for me immature
and undisciplined my imagination ran riot what would they like these men whose already incinerated remains had been blasted into oblivion by the seventy five millimeter shells of
our friend in the sherman my attitude dewar was ambivalent ondoubt only i was part passives but the spite and abysmal record in mathematics and particularly in geometry i was
moderately logical for my age this clearly ruled out told dedication to passivism i previously discussed the concept of conscientious objection with clergy of all denominations
but none of them could give me constructive answers to my questions the privations and suffering of eighteen button her me an infantry subaltern is faced with a conflict which
cannot be resolved one get emotionally involved with those under one command without this bond few men will respond and consequently little can be achieved however to win battles
decisions have to be taken and orders given which at times may seem to be a betrayal of his trust before battle the commander must exude confidence and enthusiasm whatever fears
his private thoughts may hold just how thin a line divides this from deliberate deception i call at the commander's delemma a pretentious phrase but there is nothing to be done
about it the nicholas monserau the cruel sea poor commander ericson makes the point with poignancy it's the war the whole bloody war we've just got to do these things and say our
prayers at the end there was another side possibly caused by a grinling danger attracted and excited me i felt a lady and until the battle was over i was impervious to exhaustion
commanding a platoon in battle demands not only a clear mind for also considerable emotional force i suspected as the same transmitted force that exists between a conductor and
orchestra forty years later the dilemma of my ambulance is still unresolved i find the suffering inflicted by war on acceptable particularly amongst women children and animals
thank god i was spared that horrific sights of files on some days i am a pacifist and yet i'm still attracted by the sounds of guns and but for extraordinarily happy marriage
would have found it difficult to resist the lore of soldiering so what he calls the commanders dilemma miss what i call the dicotomy leadership and that want is the premier of
them all and that is as a leader as a combat leader you are going to love you men and care about them more than anything else in the world and with that you are going to make
decisions and make plans where you are sending those men into a situation where they can be wounded or killed and that's it and that is the ultimate that gotashi that is the
hardest one to balance back to the book a new officer arrived named humphreys he used to play cricket for worse tesire he came on the same day that sergeant oxin received a well
earned commission in the field the grass told them about sergeant orland and with great consideration he went to seventeen potions position to offer his congratulations while they
talked just one saloon of five straddled them one shell fell into second leutenant oxen slit trench and both were killed in saintly like me can oxen has survived five months
comprise survived not a full day is there a mathematical formula by which survival can be contulit ed who are the survivors in can they be recognized over the past forty years
i've often pondered this but still offer no real answer i suspect however that is something to do with attitude attitude seems to me to be a ramener which restricts not only our
relationships but also our creative effort further common is unwise humphrey's one cargue had little time to develop an attitude to our kind of existence undoubtedly a self
fulfilling circle develops new comers an experienced in the perils of the battle field suffered the highest casualties knowledge of what can and what cannot be wrist postpones the
fatal reckoning for the soldier for the commander however junior battle field experience will not only protect himself but also all those under his command in that's the that's
why training is so important so important that's why when i go down with you now detonator mine or i went to draining cause i knew that right there and i was thinking edn't know
how long the war was gaston left her body remedy was still a horrible and when the task in a came in relieved us man they were getting after it and i d know long i was going to
last i mean it ended up not lasting that much longer that kind of intense fighting but it was impossible to tell at that time we would jist barely seeing stuff start to get a
start to get better at the end atopen just barely starting see the first indications of that back to the book the fifth duke of cornwall's light infantry at attempted to attack
hove in village though the ghastly woods and had taken heavy casualties their rain soaked bodies littered the paths and clearings while carrying out a reconnoisance i came across
one of their sections lying a cropling along the small path facing the enemy at first i thought them alive until i saw that the studs on their boots were rusty and their webbing
equipment was bleached with rain their battle dress was starched with mud and their hands and faces were green german booby traps were all nor near many of the tracks and i was
told by the company commander of the fourth wilshire from whom we took over the position that some of the bodies were also wobytrade though try to bury them he said i was
temporarily commanding the company because douglass had been given a well deserved leave in brussels although militarily comparatively uneventful holding has a special place in my
memories it was round doubt my most the most grisly and horrifying position that we have refold held but more importantly it was the place of private charles ravens triumph raven
had fought in all our battles since hilon twelve which to him was a yard stick of horror all subsequent experience was compared with that his first battle he was no soldier i
doubt if he influenced greatly any discourses in counters or bowls in which he took part sometimes he was frightened and he was so out of place on the battle field that i often
wondered how he became an infantry soldier before the war he had been a cork in north london i am sure he was a conscientious and loyal employ and a considerate and loving husband
for on like most of us he was married raven had hidden depths and could be inspired once in normandy during a nasty little petunia up a sunken lane eighteen fulton was held up by
the inevitable unlocated spends straining my eyes to binoculars i was trying vainly to locate these guns when i was handed a steaming mug of tea he should have been observing to
his front but judging the moment right he had brewed a mess in of tea on a solid fuel stove by any standards this was an inspired act he was considerate with our reinforcements
pale on sure men some of whom until recently had served in the royal artillery and had been transferred to infantry regiment to replace the appalling losses incurred in the norman
deboat beside them raven looked bronzed and weather beaten a hardened campaigner completely the german blue gropest to prove it some of the pucoon regaled the reinforcements were
horrible tales from normandy and else as little more this school boy i found these stories of musing raven did not fear for him was horribly real and never to be joked about he
developed up paternal attitude toward the newer in younger soldiers a relationship devoid of patronage but essentially one of kindly understanding he spoke to me about it when he
i thanked him for his help i admit on dead windy sir his extraordinary honesty with himself in the rest of atune forbade him to attempt to hide the fact raven it overtaxed as
nervous and physical resources long before we arrived in hovand after two days in the position he came to me late one evening and asked my permission to report sick the following
morning as the pose i should and petially and refused but something made me hesitate and avoid dealing directly with the situation i said simply all right raven but do come see me
before you leave he didn't come the matter was never again mentioned i can only surmise the struggle which raged in his mind all that night while he crouched in his water log slit
treberon into the sinister darkness of the wood i do know however that in homino a considerable moral triumph over stark horror was achieved by a good man unequipped for nature on
a quickener for warm in my view the bravest of the brave tieckian had been through all this stuffing diabery held the line and finally he was goin to break finnieston break in it
and he comes to said egerian says him i'm good at rosic to morrow said he jerusalemite ere you go he doesn't come back doesn't come back to doesn't go sick back to the book
infantry warfare is wretched business it makes physical and emotional demand on participants that run contrary to all human instinct the strong minority must quietly help the weak
majority to me that is the essence of good team work and that jewel in the crown of the british army the regimental system is the strong foundation upon which we all knowingly or
unknowingly relied so there's going to be some people that deal with it better than others and you got help here's a situation they set up early warning flares so little trip
wires in case do to to notify them if the enemy is moving down one of their flanks and here we go back to look after a ten minutes had passed we heard the popping of mortars
behind hove in village in a concentration of bombs fell in a field where we had laid the flares some her left leg was vividly illuminated as far after flarin knighted knowing
little about these wars we had laid them with the trip wire to talk adread a degree of slack the flares were naught of ignited my fault i should have known had i tell e loo stream
ownership from city jerry and therefore you sir now we start about the attitude of the soldiers and how soldiers elders a claim you read an article years after the war that said
that people do a bit people became brutal from the from the war then here's what he says back to the book does war brutalizes one can only speak from personal experience but i
think not certainly no soldier of mine was made brutal rather the opposite war developed in eighteen patoon consideration for comrades and humanity towards civilians and prisoners
of war i was proud of my soldiers then and this sentiment has increased with the passing of years i would not suggest that the naturally brutal might not find in war an outlet for
their brigaut however that war does not bodilie the type of decent men the type of decent and fair minded young englishman whom i had the very great honour to command we were not
an aggressive generation a fact which may explain my failure to understand some present day attitudes in the arm services particularly in the royal marines and the parsee regiment
possibly a degree of personal aggression is appropriate in troops are come who are committed to battle for comparatively short periods like the marines and the paris when the
success of an operation depends on old tarapin action however in my experience troops lose personal gresson after about two months in to after three months they acquire a mature
compassion which in no way detracts from their offensive capability they simply know a lot more about war i would suggest that personal aggression should not be confused with
offenses spirit based on professional competence and experience interesting take that aggression that you can maintain if you it's not going to last for ever and then you're going
to have to fall back on duty and in that much sure compassion which isn't takeaway from their offensive capability interesting back to become leven to january we returned to the
south of india just to go back that one is right there dick out of you leadership there is a dichotomy in everything and you know obviously in a big proposing of being aggressive
and i also always talk about the fact that there is such a thing as being too restive you're running to your death no not a good idea not a good idea there's probably a good
chance that when he talks about people after two months of combat every one starts to develop a different type of attitude also the people that were old to aggressive didn't make
it like the kick like the leader that he talked about that was strutting around the guy was older aggressive didn't care about anything and he's dead so there's a balance you got
to have that that i conomy leadership that's why that economy of literati so important answer hard onderstand back to the book on the day after the italian was relieved in hope
and wood some one i spect i suspected was the agent jim watson decided that i should enjoy forty eight hours all leave in antwerp i was overjoyed but large hotel although faded
was still plush and filled with officers including women eight s officers from the various base unit stationed in the city dressed as i had left the battle field i was both
disheveled and soiled surrounded by the residences many of whom were in service dress i could not have felt more isolated and lonely to genesee time but he shown up off the battle
field of grimy my first mitten visit was to a magnificent white marble gentlemen's hair dressing son in the basement of a hotel without a word the barbararity my hair twice before
touching it with his precious scissors and clippers i remember the feeling of well being as climbing the stairs i returned to my room next i took three very hot baths one after
the other to rid myself of grime both physical and emotional i think i must have slept for fourteen hours before i rose shaved took another bath and decided to explore the city a
rather creased battle dress was my best suit and in this i descended the main staircase into the lounge which was filled with the resident officers all of whom seemed to be
annoyingly selfish sired i met a barrier i had walked out of a world that i knew into one where i was desperate unsure of myself away from the battle field this world had no place
for me i did not go out to lunch go to night clubs or meet the girls who were everywhere seemed to be canvassing for these establishments i had wandered too far into dark and
smoky battle fields across this stick to find solace or comfort in the bright light behind the black out curtains of antwerp i longed to return to the battalion and to eighteen
button which without my knowing it had become my home with a light heart a clean body flesh freshly laundered clothes and refreshed by hours of unbroken sleep i gladly climbed
into the free tone truck that took me there years later i found the same problem after i left the army and tordinona taste in the real world and as any one who has served with
good soldiers on grim battle fields will confirm afterwards re alife never seems real again later there was no eighteen button to slink back to and without a loving wife it would
have proved intolerable well that's the feeling that that we get when you get done doing that job an realise never seems real again and comparison i know the taterations and that
part back to the book an eleven january we returned to the south a holland this time to gain ganelet snow lay on deeply frozen ground and life for the injured and life for the
infantry manning their slittungs became unbearable again the italian front was extensive de company was in reserve close close to the taneha quarters on the edge town fortunately
gang up was on a reverse slope which the loudest to move freely during daylight hours the cold was penetrating the oil in our automatic weapons froze and until anti freeze
lubricants were issued or brands were useless holding a wide front but large gaps between our company positions necessitated putting out many standing patrols particular at night
the privation suffered by these small patrols usually a corpo and free or for men were harder than the rest of us some had housetops and a few were exact a evacuated suffering
from exposure keeping fit warm and clean became a great effort conversation dried up the buttoning quiet but never morose at one stage i decided they needed cheering up and i
wander round the section postrate with all of them it was quite unnecessary i had wrongly judged their mood they just wanted to be left alone now there's a pagan by the bookerist
bottom battle at a pace place called cleaves and after the battle at cleave he kind o deep reefs here back to the book what instructors at the school of infantry would think about
the fighting cleave i shuddered to think he resembled no other battle in my experience i have little control and it developed into a section commanders battle looking back over
the years it seems military lead totally unprofessional are real wild west shot out tactically the germans had every advantage we were strung out in a long column of mid shattered
buildings and piles of rubles with the groups of parsees attacking from both sides they could slip at us and engaged with our with their span ours from dozens of positions totally
hidden by piles of rubble they had the opportunity to concentrate their counter attacks on the narrowest of fronts but failed to do to do so so they failed to focus their efforts
i can only assume that we had the psychological advantage the circumstances being so chaotic and disorganized perhaps being germans they could not overcome their instinct for
organization and tidings in the end they departed possibly in disgust leaving us undisputed victors on another attack the german that this point are recreating and they conceded
their retreating fearing that the retreating parochial make a stand on the edge of the wood i increased the rate of advance joining land corporal porteous in the forward section
running across the level crossing a selden myself face to face with a german platoon complete with eng thirty four fortunately the gun was mounted on a tripod which was unusual
and could not be traversed in arguron from a drained channel on the left of the road a parishes leaped up saved and camoflage veil pointing his miser of me from about ten yards
range he fired a whole magazine of about thirty rounds it was like watching a slow running silent movie i didn't hear the chatter of the miser but i do remember seeing the stream
of empty cartridges cartridges fly from the german machine gun miracles do indeed happened one nine millimeter bullet went through my bray missing my head literally by a hair's
with another went under the appalled of my jacket penetrating the webbing across brace the webbing cross brace of my equipment and grazing my right shoulder a third bullet
ricochet off the surf the road and disintegrated the jacket finally lodging in the palm of my right hand then came the anti climax the german looked at me in amazement through a
miser and i with a shrug of the shoulders he surrendered my natural elation was short lived behind me lay lance corporal for is shot through the heart some of the german put on
ran away across the open fields to our left and were caught down by rapid fire brand gun by sergeant kingston section which now wind the railway track and left the road the
remains the enemy came towards us over the level crossing with her hands raised we took fifty seven prisoners now the moving along and they are clearing some cottages and they get
to this one cottage filled with rough wooden bunks it had obviously served his air rage shelter the house having been found clear enemy jack lee was off his guard as he descended
the steps suddenly from under a pile of blankets left the fanatical german paratur ber the only fanatical german caractere bowed counted the entire battle a large man he seized
jack around the throat in the attempt to strangle private fled rose to the challenge in a bound he was down the steps and with a mighty lunge transfixed the german on his bayonet
a brave lad he undoubtedly saved lance corporal ease life just a day's before losing his own the german was indeed unlucky as it was the only occasion throughout the campaign on
which eighteen poltons bayonets were bloodied we usually used them to open food cans having checked the polton positions and arkor for the brands exhaustion hit me i found to a
deep sleep during the evening a senior officer i understand it was ever to forget or divisional commander came on to my company position when he asked to speak to me sergeant
kingston refused to have me wakened i am sure that jim was the most diplomatic about it but it says much for our visitors humanity that he let it go by and another attack a and c
companies were unleashed and passing be company secured their objectives against some opposition there is now our turn de company advanced across the flat open fields down the
left hand side of the main road into entente name of the city village casualties from the preceding companies in the opposition lay all around about three hundred yards short of
the town were extremely accurately engaged by a battery of one o five some of their shells exploded on the hard surface the rod ears split in detonations and frightening
fragmentation pieces of shell casing hummed in wind around us one twirling piece and bedded itself with a thud into the trunk of a tree a few inches from my right ear was the only
time in the whole campaign when i regretted throwing away my steel helmet i think it was the accuracy and the intense noise of the shelling that caused in one of eighteen
fortune's land corporals a big man who had served honorably since market garden went to pieces there was a pathetic site and to everyone's credit he was quietly removed from the
battle he had passed his limit and nothing more can be said so you don't know these guys are brave at one moment and in a week a month two months four months they can't do it any
more they get across the rhine now their folly in germany there's a little bit of home o in the fighting back to the book early one morning while we were waiting for our
supporting armor to arrive or podra john williams drove over seas after wandering around the potentate he suggested is just that we should go for a short strong i had now been
commanding eighteen petun for over eight months and i suspect that our agitatin we watson a kindly soul and asked him to find out what shape i was in we had not gone far into the
next field when we came across some grisly remnants one of our tiller shells must have exploded right at the feet of a german soldier who had been digging a sithence his
splintered and twisted spade lay beside they by the side of that path dug trench beside which was a small shell he had been disintegrated in the small pieces of flesh and bone
which lay scattered all over the field had i been on my own i would no doubt have shuddered and quickly departed from this horror trapdoor a wire fence near by lay a pair of shut
which are extraordinarily brave padres spread out as a shroud on the cold and damp grass then stooping he walked around the field a lonely figure reverently picking up every piece
of that poor soldier to my shame i stood and watched him i lacked the courage to help somewhere beneath those flat damp fields just north of the rhine that polite pathetic bundle
must still lie now they are no tack again but it seems like sames are going there way and we're going estein of giving a brief to his to his runner when all of a sudden he hears
yellow back to the book sir their charging us sure nough for the bout one hundred and fifty yards ahead and well spread out wine of about twenty germans were putting in a bayonet
charge brave lads they didn't stand a chance i gave no orders except sea fire not one got within seventy five yards of us a few minutes later a procession of germans with
stretchers and a huge red flag emerge from the village behind when they were close to their casualties they hesitated so i stood up and waved them on all wanton arms stretcher
bearers and they moved across our front collecting their dead and wounded when they had finished their task of mercy one of them i think he must have been a german medical officer
turned and saluted in argyreon i returned the salute and with that gesture the tiny bottle of cinder ended in bremen little over a month later one of our stretcher bearers lance
corporal j stephens was killed by a german grenade as he went to ten to wounded german soldier eighteen polton remembering cindered just a fire outraged by such unsoldierly
behavior there is a mathematical formula aggression increases the further one goes behind the lines opposing infantry with few except in like the ass are joined by a natural bond
of mutual compassion which few but the aristocracy of the battle field can understand the public influenced no doubt by writers with literal no experience of battle had strange
and sometimes silly ideas about what makes a good soldier ill informed television programs and added to this misunderstanding few professions can be have been so misleadingly
caricatured i had i been asked at the time before august nineteen forty four the list a personal characteristics which go to make a good infantry soldier my reply would indeed
have been wider the mark why of the mark like most i no doubt what i suggested only masculine ones like aggression physical stamina a hunting instinct instinct and competitive
nature how wrong i would have been i would now suggest the following firstly sufferance without which one could not survive the resisting what he thinks the most important
territories defer for an infantry soldier are the first one is suffering the ability to suffer secondly a quiet mind which enables us soldier to live in harmony with his fellows
through all sorts of difficulties in sometimes under dreadful conditions as in a closed a monastic existence there is simply no room for the assertive or acrimonious third leg
below no less important a sense of the ridiculous which helpless soldier surmount the unacceptable add to these a reasonable standard of physical fitness and a dedicated
professional competence and avould for all seasons none of the soldiers or anteros who made eighteen polton what it was resembled the characters portrayed in most books and films
about war all quiet sensible unassuming and some by any standard where heroes if i now had to select a team for a dangerous mission and my choice was restricted to stars of the
sports field or poets i would unhesitatingly recruit from the latter very interesting brandenau after put this in a context of of his time but who there is no doubt that i mean
you get a sport star specially vedas those guys that are getting paid twenty thirty forty million dollars a year to play a game that there probably not going to be le bested
suffering in a trench interesting and i i think the key point of that is what is going back to what he talks about earlier someone a cantin some one at an think some one that is
not trapped when in thinking the same faces every one else which certainly an artist or a poet as to be outside the box of roma thought otherwise they become that they don't
become the right in this situation is petion is kind to pin down and vers in a rage shelter which has some one in it is firing these things called the pans or false which is like
a it's kind of like a bazoo or like an orb looking thing and he sees where it's coming from any sees that it's this shelter but he isn't know who's in the shelter he regaled back
to the cool chelas in the shelter women and children sheltering more enemy soldiers with more pans are fousand span os we were in avonlea situation in it was no good posing
forward and ignoring the menace lurking inside that shelter i could have sent two or three men to clear it however experience had taught me that when clearing sellers that the
first man sent in is invariably killed instead concentrated fire was poured into the entrance including the pot bomb around us the battle still raged and no opportunity arose from
edensor me to inspect the consequences of an awful decision nevertheless my duty was to win battles and not to gamble with the lives of my soldiers by fussing over too sensitive a
conscience so there ye is that god to before you at the one and he looked at the shelter think of there might be women and gets in there but it does moment in time doesn't have
time to find out and i have time do to take a most cautious rout so they hammer it with machine gun fire and some semantik rounds he never even go to look but he knows that he
can't it is duty went out and he can't die dolly because he has a sensitive conscience tells and work back to the book brimmer haven was our final objective it was tismin teen
forty five nineteen days before my twenty first birthday think about what you were doing you were told and might fiesting ready to break out we were concentrated at will step
about twenty miles north of bremen when the end came and by the end i mean the end of the war a hundred and twenty nine brigades order was stand down and spliced them rain brace
which is a military secate splice made brassie drinking light as he lit you can drink the war's over i just given orders for our small partner bodies moved forward against fifteen
pans or division one of the famous africa cor formations in nineteen eighty three jim kingston gave me his copy of those orders which he had kept all those years reaction to the
end of the war like aggression increased further behind the lines one went the natural aristocracy of the battle field the infantry having fired a poteo of very lights curled up
and slept we had learned too much to indulge in shallow demonstrations so everyone's all fireworks and getting crazy is gaelic cool onlee since july we had come a long way from
the norman de beached the battalion and lost forty seven officers and one thousand two hundred sixty six and coos and private soldiers killed or wounded after alive thirty first
nineteen forty four no member of eighteen petuna put on a charge moonwise or deserted of the original thirty six ants and soldiers who had landed in normandy only corporal
cheeseman remained one man many came after them and lasted a few days weeks or months few is able to think adequately i doubt if any then realized how much i personally owe
eighteen potion when i joined them on thirty first to july i was naive and gash due to a narrow up bringing except for a passionate love of music my intellect and in emotions were
unstimulated my chief man at school had been a bus mal my mind was undisciplined and confidence in myself till this was rapidly swept away probably within three weeks certainly
before we crossed the sand on the twenty eighth of august the covering in a billy command a group of men some frightened and bewildered produced a new found confidence
particularly since i seemed to be able to achieve it quietly and without acrimony or for having to improvise tact ector come the short comings of battle school training also
helped it proved to me that in some circumstances older and more experienced the night others older more experience than i could be wrong i suspect that as an only child i had
been brought up in too much awe of my elders a new world opened before me for thought and planning were demanded imagination and instinct too was that apparently quiet normandy
lane lee the intense span on fire and more during a long a dyke was at a prelude to an enemies withdraw did the orchard and fun of the village hide eighty eight my judgment in
these things had proved equal to better than most of the the most any was the making of me it also brought a few problems i am now only able to plan an run things in my way as a
result i'm probably unemployable however i would never wish to change places with the shy hesitant boy whom circumstances put in command of eighteen betune hours far too young and
inexperienced to appreciate that an infatuation was the finest command in the army and that his success or failure of a battle so often lay solely in the hands of a young officer
after careful reflection i doubt that at any time since the war have i carried the burden of responsibility that i bore as a subaltern in battle when an army core division or
pided was committed to battle it was the italian company and buton commanders who took over the mantle of responsibility from the genus from the generals and brigadiers in close
country forests and street fighting the platoon commander became the linch pin only the company of patoon commanders particularly the latter were able to have close relationship
with their soldiers which is a prerequisite for having above average success failure by an infantry company coraceis inal battle plan conversely gallant success like de company at
xanten under rote the natalians of victory again i would emphasize the analog with the bond of professional respect between a great conductor and the members of the symphony
orchestra without which a truly great performance is not possible outstanding performances cannot be arranged in a concepts office the created by some magic by the conductor in
players in the hero and performance similarly while senior commanders appreciated the strength of weaknesses of their battalions and virgates they could not extract a great
performance from the riflemen upon coom victory depended only the company of bolton commanders supported by their incas could insure that forty two years on i did considerable
satisfaction from eighteen polton successes more so than i got up the time so those are his thoughts and in ease the war is now over and a few days after the war ended um well go
to the book after colera noculations we were conducted into the world of frankenstein nothing had prepared us for what we now experienced not hill one twelve not mount been sown
else or holiname with this horror before the incredulous eyes of eighteen button spread over acres of delightfully wooded countryside was a factory of death i may sheeted bodies
resembling wax effigies of an alien race from a strange in distant planet filled many pits the stench of death and the sight of such highly industrialized human degradation left
my soldiers speechless private macy d companies deep driver apply some it up there is now no doubt that we have fought a just war that's after i saw the concentration camps
obviously after the book within a month of the war ending twenty first army grew was required to supply junior officers from the fourteenth army in burma lippi the commanding
officer decided that i should be one of them and by then being intent on a military career i was not inclined to argue i would gain useful experience of jungle warfare of which i
do nothing about the there get in order to a word one on a accipio you wrapped up pushing from normandy through germany through their surrender yes well we need we people to go to
fight in asia when he belabora i was totally unprepared for the potions for the emotions that were unleashed immediately after i was deprived of eighteen fulton as a deep took me
away from the battalion a ghastly desolation and gulf me i felt like a small boy on his way to a grim and unknown boarding school the pleasures of command in a ten otonabee were
being denied me and it's interesting to his display from the bolton and any goose and to talk about what happened to the guise that survives they knew and as i found this part to
be fascinating in the how these people went back to normal life back to the book jim kingston was demobilised in january nineteen forty six and two months later he returned to his
civilian post with the bristle corporation electricity department retired a nineteen seventy five never married dum proctor returned home to his wife and baby son and nottingham
and march of nineteen forty six found the transition from army to civilian life painless returning to his accounting post in the coal industry ow in cheeseman during the first few
days of his demobilization to wife died miserable and forlorn he returned to his old job in covent garden and a few years later he met and married bella who in his own words was a
comfort inspiration to him charles raven joined the london transport as a bus conductor later transferring to the clerical staff and rose by hard work and study to be a garage
inspector joe thomas and george harish went to the building trade industry in bridge water surprisingly just incredibly normal paths after this incredibly not normal life and and
what happened to said ne jerry to hers what happened to see jerry back the book arriving england all night july nineteen forty five i reported to the holding battalion of the
hampshire regiment at westgate on sea and was immediately sent on twenty eight days leave after a night out in london with three friends also baraban i telephoned my parents in
found them away chopping them to bagneres i caught a train from waterloo and went to see them staying at the same hotel as my parents were flight lieutenant jack weather les widow
taggi and your three old daughter anne resting at the same tellaheens at once a bond of deep understanding affection developed between us in august an atom bald was dropped and so
at a stroke my visit to burma was rendered pointless so too in my heart was a military career i soldier down in libya and palestine with the first battalion of my own regiment for
two more interest in years and finally was demobilized in may of nineteen forty seven within a week of leaving the army i attended to job interview the managing director who saw
me a pale and thin lipped man was a business acquaintance of a relative he eyed me coldly slowly and precisely from his desk he lifted a ruler which he rudely pointed at my face i
understand that you made a slight name for yourself in the war be that as it may people like you jerry should remember that while you have been gallivanting round the world most
of my staff and remain a loyal to the com to company if you can give me one valid reason why should even consider you for any position i should be interested to hear it i nearly
hit him now i wish that i had quickly grabbing my hat on bella rose and told him that he was the last man in the world i would rather starve than work for him with that i left my
heart pounding and a foul taste in my mouth i walked aimlessly through miles of streets wishing that i was back on some battle field with real men soldiers like eighteen toon
armistice day brings its problems pagan i would like to go to church we used to go but found almost without exception a lack of perception and sensitivity amongst the clergy we
suffered one or as to stay sir sermon to voted to the curate teretha war being a crime against manity all chivalry must therefore be hypocritical i wondered whether the german
stretch her bearers and their wounded at singein would have agreed i took offence pagani have a lot to mourn she jack weatherly and i eighteen patuone's dead perhaps it is
expecting too much of any one to understand intense grief particularly that of an owain puttin commander who had to lead some of his men to their deaths we now spent or missus
stay quietly at all with our ghosts memories bound during the night i mean a habit of wandering around the platoon position sudet my soldiers could talk to me i learned a lot they
talked about their families in their future hopes i hardly had to contribute to those whispered conversations that sometimes took place in the dead of night or in the cold gray
light just before dawn i think it may have held my soldiers to have a confidant in valuable experience of human nature i now treasure the memory weapons also left memories the
monotonous repetitive bursts of the brand the hysterical shriek of the mgoro twos for furious rate of fire and the leaf of chatter of the stands and smiles all contribute all
contributed to the cacophony of battle tracer bullet seared themselves into memory fired from a distance the parrot their parabola approached almost lazily until suddenly like a
swarm of fiery demons they accelerated directly passed one head with earsplitting crack i shall never forget the brain splitting shock wave is more tables dead nated nor the
rending of the atmosphere when a stick of neblinas straddled one slit trench my memory is stocked with smells the metallic stench of dead cattle in normandy the pungent odor of
german prisoners and the vile penetrating chemical smell from a newly proud shell greater strange fleeting memories too why in circumstance of great danger did the palms of my
hands moistened making it difficult to grip the butt of my pistol why on pitt's black night full of menace was a possible to discern enemy movement by fixing my straining eyes
slightly to excite it sounds foolish but i swear that it works after forty years i am sure i could still pray a thirty six gnadenthal darkness or load the magazines of a colonati
pestil i remember our dead there souls departing they lay awkwardly like bundles of discarded clothing at bedburg lance corporal porteous lay by the railway crossing in an instant
he had gone leaving his body clothing and equipment empty at helen boom private jones died with a tiny cry lost in the chill winter air as the bullet took him from us memories are
not all sad rarely since is my adrenal in flowed as an inventor combat we all the senses alert one lived for a few hours sometimes for day at a concert pitch like a drug a
captivated me i wanted more totally absorbed one pressed on until objective had been seized and i flopped as i had never done since i remember the mood of pulsating expectancy
during the last few hours before battle old trusted friends i denisthorpe hand cock would arrive to tie up their artillery support others troop commanders from the sherwood
rangers would appear almost in party mood de marry up with us the very air was vibrant with excitement and good fellowship no acrimony simply in exercise in willing cooperation to
help us the infantry overcome the day's grim task but my most treasured memory is the simple and sincere affection which existed between us all haydon mutual trust it was the
corner stone of the petunies and it survives unchanged to this day this is tinged with regret regret because jim kingston owen cheeseman and particularly dug proctor did not
receive any recognition they so richly deserved jim and owen were mentioned dispatches but dog was left on rewarded over the years this omissis troubled me particularly because i
had not been so had i not been so young and inexperienced more notice might have been taken of my representations i have no doubt that they all learned a military medal on more
than one occasion and i there potion commander failed them in this respect i miss my soldiers the warmth of their presence comforted me and their humor restored my spirits in the
brutal world of infantry warfare although few of them realized it and certainly known would admit it there behaviour was noble their absence left a void which but for an
acceptably happy marriage would have certainly drawn me back into the army for the comfort that only a soldier can understand strangely i have never since considered myself
anything but a soldier and that rapahanock i am not sure if i have much to add because because simitery seems to capture it in some much of what he talks about explained a
somewhat not only about about being a soldier but also about what it's like when a soljer is no longer a soldier two to miss the agrement singular focus to miss seeing men at her
best at their noblest to miss the men themselves your comrades your friends you are brothers to miss waste calls perfectly that simple insincere affection that exists in a bolton
in affection that i'm not sure exist anywhere else than you you hear me talk about when i start talking about a seal petunia how that's the best thing in the world then sidney
jerry captures it better than me you miss the mission and you miss the men and of course you miss the fallen as the british call them the glorious dead in you wonder what would
have become at them where would they be now and you have you wonder why why then why is it then any do i talk about the gift right the gift that they gave us that the falling of
given us this gift of freedom and this gift of life but their there's more there's more because i see the rest of us we grow old prime passes as by an that that simple and sincere
affection that sidney jerry describes it changes as we change it ages as we agent but the fallen do not change a fallen do not age time as no effect on them they remain they
remain young and bold and brave and unconquerable pansie remember them that way as they were and as they will always be parros herstal no more and yet walk everywhere with us
humile no more and yet they never stop smiling heroine no more yet never stopped living or friends who shine no more then yet never stop shining or that is the other gifts that
they taste fortune the bask in their light entermete creational of gabioni so echo may be a farm you could talk about something else from a little while ye i would appreciate it
sir you know a part that had stood out and we talk about this before where there was a part where you know the germans the bayonets they were attacking hundred fifty yards at
length and i just came out down they just keep killed and then the red flag comes up stretchers come out ever won see fires kind o like yon they're following these specific rules
of and then the sole they collect a bodies in they salute conelike okay or more good and then he salutes back okay salling on essentially game on them but this is like a warthog
you know it's deferentia you kind of get that same feeling way on a lord i will obey but like your watch like a u c fight and then the round ends were in them the guy's kind of
blackfooted round you know for sure but well to seconds ago you gigartina nocked a guy out you know just like in this situation two seconds ago these guys were coming to kill you
and you killed them killed them de boom it happen round over you know let's essentially continued following the rules and it it's weird because it's less about the rules and more
about like the respect onknowingly can pion the fact that when they were in holes in the wood the germans had boobyprize the the british body so they were just langer than
coveting kate they didn't get the same respect back but i think that's one thing that that sydney jerry is very intent on throughout the book is that regardless of how depraved
the enemy as they are going to take the high road now and benita that's why this book is the book that give this book every one at up at sandhurst which is the the british
military academy the geeven at neater reason why because he sets the standard with his troops and they hold that standard through regardless of the way the enemy behaved they
don't lower themselves to that behaviour you know the worst to trust de that gits committed by his soldiers is when they spank a walanseens no that's that's why this book is so
powerful and any now there's no wot of the book is very it's very unvested stuff in there that you you just aren't ready for right em even when he was talking about the the traits
that some one should have and yet you know when you start thinking about it you right yes he's right and you had the choice between getting some meat to head that was goin to go
do your bidding even though he might look like a big beast has got a but then if you think about how that i can act in the things give tough or when things become at tickleing ye
how's that person in a hack so these are is in i love the fact also that man he's killing people she's let to know it's easy to get caught up in the fact that he's wearing
corduroy pants and he's got this there's a part of not part it in didn't go over the poast there's there's a group of of a german there's a german some kind of artilleree and in
artillery team and there getting the the brits are getting their guns dialed in to the team and their gestating em and they make a run for it and they have horses and there's like
six guys in some horses towing this the artillery piece away at city jerry feels happy he happy that the he specially happy to horses like you he doesn't like he in the the the
the animals get killed neither answer his actually happy that these guys escape and then he just says you know well that's wrong because these guys an come back and killed my
soldiers so she does it he you can see how hard otis for some one to be indeed situations where you have the good conscience which wants do right thing and at the same time you
got to kill people yes and that's a that's what makes combat so hard in the den aniething that ramoth christmas uh yeah the christmas reel where the germans the germans kind in
that situation they initiated that right there was there like conflictu initiation but yet i i've you remember that particular story but i think over all it was almost like a
mutual suton beneant clar story there was sort of a voice that says he i'll count she you had over and a man it's is just crazy how that can pennimore from these situations where
desertit aging blown to pieces on purpose by the way not now not like some tragic accident like don that's the intent that's the intention then they wanted to stop and sing
together put it it occur and in the next day by the way the going back to killing each other all in mass ye hang ye let's that's the thing about an you know that eyemouth a book
like this is so revealing of human nature because business people have to do the same thing we you hear a business person and your business is losing money well guess what you
might have to do caught staff you know if you got and you you will let's say well we're on a small business or you you go you've got a small bisness you got twenty people you know
all those twenty people it's not like a nameless person that your fire and right when you let go for five people and because you need to save money next quarter you're going to
lose your building the gashan you're in another people yes and so is the same dichotomy where this boss who wants to take care of his people just like city jerry was take care of
his men and all of a sudden the only way to do your mission is you got to kill it he got her dog to get somebody's people killed you're goin to fire some of these people althouse
our plants shuts down otherwise we can't go forward yet every one does no one has a job now so the similarities yanna's why it's that's why these things about war revealed so much
about human nature which is really what this pocasset is about human nature and the better you understand human nature there to things at happened number one the better you can
lead other people but equally as important if not more important is if you understand human nature you cannot restand yourself ye can understand the decisions that you may in
understand why something's bothering you you can understand what you need to conclude so that you can move forward in the best possible way have you don't understand human nature
you're you're an inthat understand yourself he and these books allow you to gather and garner so much of that yet shall the similarity so many all the time i remember in nuthener
an helena a really high school so many used to lay up warner football where my best friend played for a different team but we are all you know it's in poor nat's difference not by
school its bite like region you know like not region i guess town on the uncle in a region only on think anyway so this you know my best friend at the time it was byron he ah who
became a pilot by the way i think i orter be reinserted um he played for a different team but we are best friend so is it was kind of that thing you know where your friends with
the guise but then you know you go on the battle field and you gether battling and your back to friends swerde you're not killing him though all at different yes i understand did
you ever see that in art iraq like any o that god like it in all come passion you know what you years you know what the enemy till you not an opsonic with the enemy time sesseby
with the civilian types for sure i mean a babius and you see guys would do go completely out of the way to try protectors avilion ah the enemy over there it is a lot different
years all thirsters the here you have a uniformed soldier you know vere you don't have uniforms alter you got somebody that shinto sneak around and and billy openin he you don't
see that same level of now mean once you get it i captured it's it you know the day we got em captures the poop put him in the back of the human it ye so you definitely what what
he talks about is this dismees ect of like look we are sitting in a slit trench getting more dormienti folie when i meet you you're on the other side but i know that you've been
slitting a slithering get more all day right that's why we have uturoa h other yerina it's a semethe said there not suffering the same type of situation yet and and they also you
know one thing that that really throws that stuff out the window is the way that the insurgents treated the civilian populace is you know so so were witnessing non judicial
murders like wind executions were seeing that were seen civilians getting tortured were seeing you know people being beheaded it and so when you see that you there turn out his
people and you start to think look leif you are another infantry men in the opposing army i can i can emprepes with you i i understand what you're going through but if you're even
it if you're another army but i see you raping torturing murdering burning people alive i don't have to siseroan more doesn't work that way so not really a a now you would get
occasionally you get like you could call that the son would be mixed up in something that they shouldn't have been mixed up and i may be a young kid evasive teen eighteen year old
cause kossom of those kids some of the insurgents were not the emelene pro all kada some of them were just he look i'm going to get paid fifty bucks to put in it in a road my gig
yer and and if you paid me fifty bucks to go and plant bayou know crop over there i'd just as soon do that yes so you'd see some of that they'd be okay love this this kids just
you know he just caught up in something does not renand then again i mean all that the again that i caught me as if you're putting an idea the road to kill americans ridin care
about you and i want to tell you m that's all there is to that in and bit it's definitely a difference in rio when the when the people that you fighting your art the one that are
coming is kind of a trois cause even as these guys you know they'd dedectifs between like the wariness and like a normal infantry a group he differentiates those two ye that be
like if let's say the war and iraq was against le say i'll kithed taken over iraq and you were fighting even hardened all katagun or some normal you know infantrymen crayation
those guys you in like a look bisterne okay ye that the all categut first of all their probably not going to surrender and if they do that they're going to knock at the same
treatment that a that a guide at a victim of circumstance right the water the german to avice circumstance that this guy came into power i was a soldier in a soldier at the know
and a man heavy they is but there is a definitely a mutual respect that you have four four another service men that you know has been through the same kind of crap that you've
been through ye men except self with that speaking a heavy lifting canneville we should duck about on it on a great kettle bells again i do feel spoiled even every time i pick him
up you know they're don't you know that the artistic ones she would come in artistic now they have names right primal bells the outjut gallagher than our legendes all that stuff
interestin spoiled converted like the designer once their designer ish ballad by the way you know got into that ah here's the thing about the gun i said this before starting light
with kettle beltis critical my friend antony came over another anthony no veritatis day we recorded he was at my house all yea i name takeover that the day and i was like a
essleinont last meseemed i was in so much into the cattle bell so like i were doing this thing be careful and i saw and he had done think he'd ever done it you here no by wonder
line all he just he grab the lightest one and you know i should start light or whatever and you could tell his amesa this was all due spect if you have done it before it makes
sense but like his form was way off and am thinking briller gone kit or are you now go onderful e so i was goin to go until like what crazy work out i did but i'll save that
friend on a time i were now ordorous right now he aoust look at my watch to fifty three at some not a good side so i apologized to every one in the world for going at three half
hour podcast which is a going to turn into a faculities his last fourteen work out stayford affogato the less the soul will critical curll real quake of talking somebody at the
muster us i forget who was not the less was talking about the benefits yet again this likabong it's true i don't exaggerate about the cruel is no hand like i can't go back to not
taking crilla the gruel and i don't mind fedosay were talking late number the ice had he reran on a cochrane's all mad at me because he have me some o your my oonrana ye actually
technical technically was gentle le who brought me some itinerate the ordonnances easiest he innovator of the gathered it he'll not less i'll never go back to no crew oil sir
where would you get it on it cried owen if you want to save money it's kind goin it dot comes last jacanas a lot of things on there and on it is one of those good companies
flashed website where enything you need like anything you need supplementation with all way down to work out they got it on there tribes not to get too addicted to the website
because a very vast very ritenersi has that is shooteing iteesan time like watching the videos and stuff browne products sometimes you can get like we talk about the una you get
on amazon in you like em an i get that thing too you don't really look super cool it's one of those hams on wonota yes he'll be careful it does but i don't think you had like
prompts you it's just the list of terenuthis all cool you know it's not just a kettle bell it's the really cool one you know to set situation interest on a dotcom flashed ocali
you want the ten per cent off and a a report back to me think and if you ask me what the cruel oil by i'll tell you i'll tell you till the end of time i weell not not take cruel
oil ever again if i have even say by another way the word is when you pick up your copy of eighteen futon or whichever books you choose that jacares on this pot cascanet site jack
about a dot com go to the book section on the tops of books from episodes clicked through there the heads up if you look in to get eighteen potente book you actually you can get
it on amazon used me for light forty box is used copy which how all be gone the habyte times tell whoever you are listening to this you can get also get it for my website rifles
direct dotcom which actually supports a rifle regement in the uk so um you can get it there as well or he can by the use hardcopies from they have is on ye dat come atter you
quick grow yet clicked to their boom and you know even if you are a bindsong estanquet to support the cause any way another way subscribed to the potato i dun stacher googly and
any other part cast providing platforms also and not excluding you to hear you too tagoo one video version i authored by the way they way what's the benefit one of the benefits is
on you too bredouille ten to be even if you go to another apeiritos place also that all real it's a real colvile for me ye ye man found and you'll have a like that year you do
their element most a time do unless he see the esme at angry over again as you know not till you know when they play ye ever see the same as you don't see it any more now but as
her last was may or may not enjoy adds and or still how do the only first met in a assassnated you don't have to like her for example so cylopes right nonentity have like at every
single time i know you now there's this other financial company which is a weird one which is re it's really poorly done none the less it to sotillo in esemple ti lopes he'll be
like i'll talk about some stuff and then half a esme and over nor an after while you'll like okay okay except the ad but then it kanasta to you and then your kind of like it is
called advertised it on rather artigue what it's kind o like ye i see what's going on yet i still am compelled you know forts like it's kind of like it's beneficial almost i'm
over here not comparatione of no anyway am compelled to do subscribed a you too yeakey there you go said lord turned you yet a lot other stuff right and well you know england
rises not helpful and indianans in and it's rallie people can relate on some level sometimes maybe ocasion we men be weird people alone the less you too that's a good one video
verge what's the up what's jacopo is the channel yet to oratory sure may be cool if you put videos on their more often i do it as in it like two three week and lower two three
week now climbed to okay good i'm looking forward to that new whatever haeikelion on the other the wood monday went the kitats one it's it's whatever it is right now i am at there
was a for i worry no worries i got you good subscribed to that if you have an already and you kin get the viewers and exerted to which you are shareable sharable meaning the your
shorter and the hookah so you know where are opened it then going to be more of a chance in an listen to when it's two three minutes on rather than two and a half three and
anastase how ere long the seafire from doing protested cause they're too long is a bonmariage how the one else want anything is possible right that's the thing to what else i
jocoser iscalled jocko store what site jocatore dot com see can't he great ease to remember jud if it's a store and as josias jonas dark if it's a pot gas and jonas is jacopo if
it's you know if it's key taine i was meeting some janaki canoes meaning some people talking to some people added group the other day sure were not familiar with me or with
anything that respect ay and they they said oh well you did do you armoniosa all he's got a pot cast and then the other one said oh what's the name of fawkes as at all the
potestas podocarpos and she said this one grows said did you get your marketing in a lot for that aryan i should yes i he tell exactly right real riginal like that ye forest he
made you know could be worse so back to the store jocatore that is some teacher son there if you want to represent ah you now the tee shirts carry a message the message has layers
actually get technically the shirts have layers because the message is one of the layers of the shirt is a sea going there japonicum if you like something get something not a good
way to start horse sure coming out this week that's my question for you yet that's the intention okanagen angry yes i understand understand oh but he'll make me night near
business ain't normally nomopoly fadeaway or mar the don't make me come itogi yourii you ever heard me talk on this pocatel about when people don't do the job that's awesome dean
i can take the job from them ritratta sat down think about what i'm more my mind said i and you may want to step in up over on you and all the anger but to do pagiant the show i
hear ye yes no no respect i am i did and were intranet that the velorio ye choate you don't why you're saying this ryogake you can't wait for the shirt that you designed to
armagon the recognitions i say your i think you might be a rehabiting home and sabotaging my asters i made the veteran you don't want to print it because your self conscious huh
and that's not connestabile i will give you the respect because there is in fact layers to this sir is well so light now but this more layers more laselle the ice could be right i
think you might have more layers than the standard i guess we'll see we're going to find out about that one anyway talkation stuff on their as well some patches some rash guards
some cool rush arts you tended impute a the stuff anyway on there trinkitat you want something to get something good way to support also sohological warfare if you're having
trouble if you're having trouble if you're like me and sometimes he used to or currently having trouble with not feeling like working up not feeling like it so you considering
skipping the work out waiting for to morrow making your work out day into a rest if you have it not problem this what you do go psychological warfare search on i tenscore and was
on mozartean way where you can get empties you search psychological warfare jackall in it's an album which and these tracks will help you through anything that your feeling that
week miss like a dismensions whether it be waking up early or skippingrope cheating on the diet and i say cheating on the dying because you made a promise to yourself you're not
going to eat those donuts you made a promise and that now like all the onomea the donuts not the southermost may just say i can never eat a donatin no sure exactly right you can't
her everywhere in the world but will like some at olyras o with a camera yes i know get me gone i averagely done yea and consider this like what a few new hundred per cent no one
you know the watching or whatever and then you're eating the donation you imagine the girl of feeling iongevity o ye ye can't do it you done don't not to turn which gil well but
any event of other people not you doff other people feeling that weakness is attract for that remember back to run when i fon kind o came out and and there's a thing there's an
apt for that emberlee say that on these and after that did up for that thou like an expression of a look it would this there's a track for that or jim just made that up right up
in her ensilage you can get you weeheekeenee that that spot because really at what it is it's a spot in life when you try to live heavy things it's good to have a spot if you're
lifting light stuff or not lifting at all uneeda smitten worry about that if you're not doing nothing don't even get this you you need it if you're not doating in life don't get
it shemseddin it she artarial like i said eighteen fulton you can get that a rifle's direct do come from the uk its supports that regiment which on all will bow also is speaking a
rash cards and stuff seherin man dot com man my boy up there p roberts these kind the cornemuse actually she heard out of a mad man he's all about manufacturing in america which
our marabout to and i'm going to go into this at some point but like he wanted me give here and he couldn't get the fabric to he went out and bought old a band in looms from
abandoned factories i have higher like old timers that knew how to work these things in referendum and has made these looms brought em back to life so they can make geese and rash
guards here in america in maine and like i said that's kind of crazy border line psychopathic which i kind o like an anti kind o why were kanaoka on joining befores and set on lay
a b for agin war path it's going down whereon to make something happen i'll keep every one informed as we find heise the plan that rash or that mentioned the aunt posted the big
cities that was a lot nicer is a loo yestereen lit then i and plenty seatoun er played at your lowell ye didn't unmaimed it sound like just kind of cheese ye like you belenyis
overexalt the sin is that rash gard it's a hardy sold out you know so now he's printing a bunch more but there but he got away eyewise the curial yea right or get he gets one of
his prettier here in america we smiterlow check out that for a in maine doc calm growing company were getting in we with them but time am also jackaway tea on em was on here's a
hearsal again this is a service verified report i have a cat that used to catch one or two my permont i forgot to picata after i rode it and the cat at that he back now my cat is
bringing home raccoons full grown rabbits and even the neighbor's dog so be careful to lecture cat get it almost your neighbours dogs get in on dolichocephalic and it's not
doesn't tell you the thing is to the taste like normal the it is a quicker all right away the warrior kid boase this is a warning about way the warrior kid when you order away in
a warrior kid just go ahead and also order a pollanarua some healthy food and egebas when your kid gets done reading this factually they're going to want a be stronger better
coffer and smarter so supply them the way they need to resupplied quilain around yet so also the discipline equal freedom field manual there is no book like this doesn't exist
mitis not a normal book it's kind o like the podcast this poast is not fervent every one wants to listen to potassio i'll not make an apocatequil a poast for people that like to
gaster it so this book is not for people that want to read em jump sursum people don't get the poast some people aren't going understand the book here knocknagow it's coming from
that's okay i'm not a ot i'm not got when i toning down the pontassieve not said on you know what i think everyone was like it more if we did more you know interspersed some some
jokes throughout it and had bellator five minutes and to little fun presentation gaetana up music just a kind of a little jangama people get in the spirit when not doing that not
happening if you want to listen to a little jane or a little you know the metallic wrist to get in the one on the beginning of the parasha's cool that you you want that at alone
there's all the pocasset offer we don't offer there you know what you're going to get with the book if you're looking for a you know oh i see the great you knocking to get to
heroes abut that's the colfax the courting is that the publisher let me do whatever i wanted to do so i did and i made garfield he gonna feel that the that the feeling of the pot
cast is the same feeling that the book gets you so it's the heavy ulie dark bright spar right sure get after it that's in there anyway this put in elfie freedom to you manual
order it it is not printed give you a living example it's not printed on white paper he illustrate up as his go from there it's actually printed the background is all images in
blackandwhite ages i lack comes as a tigris every one say and then put over that his words so there you will legator as what they feel manners like you can get that pretty order
now of course a tree oneship it's a little book about leadership actually to a combat or ship and how you can take the combat leadership principles that we don't know about a
omoplat to your life you need that book too if you want it we also vacheron consoling me lay bating done dave burke will come and help your team a line your leadership saycross
your enemies you just heard sydney jerry saying at a leadership is the thing that makes you overcome seemingly impossible thinks it so if you leadership isn't were away you're not
going to overcome them so need to get in the game you can contact as infinitely from dotcom if you want that also the muster we just got back from the austin muster up standing on
an it was also so many drift people near lessonland monolog spread him kennedy was there to cantilupe in a cool and i didn't realize it until we argued i think i came up to you
and said this turnout so the last night we have thursday and friday and friday we got to judithe went to ten planet at austin austin tenth planet jujitsu with my boy curtis
fortitude was there antonianae a use a old school like yes mean him or from the same are then and we were from the same are from back in the day one only he is a better artist in
the artisan measom we went in and what i realized is this you know like ah wait a warrior kid ye people say all men which add the boones again is an ex remisit people say all
manner was sad that i wish i that book is arnout and wi you know where i got promoted five years ago and you know i say about wait a war your kid i wish i had it when i was a kid
you know what i say about a trematode up i wish i had it when i was a smooth assistant pouncin i wish i had it i didn't have it in what's cool about the master is so that feeling
when you go the muster your giving desolators given this mass of amount of information pragmatic information that you can take and you can execute with and so when we were out
digits i realized that i am we just all this at least people in his room just got all this information and it and it's so practical but you can take back your ten and then all top
of all that here's a little melts judithe because am only one quarter of the people that came to etude er turned to his to before the other was a fifty people that i had never
trained before so there getting this gift the gift of jugerait lesurier into the hold i would say fifty per cent of them will go back on serrating ehemre my red with one or the
son ye might be it might be yes it be be a dependent you into your a yet it's horrid it was always bizarre to me that when i entered those some one deist was a one hundred per
cent and irongray i do i'd be one hundred percent conversion right yeah honebeen oh you just choked me and i couldn't stop you i need to learn that a hundred per cent otherwise i
go through life oneret being choked by any one i don't like that feeling he now on like that at the most two is sprinkled in i don't and i mean horspitle hard by the way which it
a very critical compelling part in my opinion is this the social stuff and otemachi like you're discresing in that learning i mean the people you meet oh yeah well you definitely
are going to meet jodolet yea every one there is in the game bag giminiano get better they're all invested to get better i and any other thing is you know where hanging out i
haitian there's me lay dave j p cowen there's no greenroom itises we don't even take breakstone to go the wind when we take a break to let the audience like go to the rest roora
grab a you know a couple of coffee or a jocolate t we we we just we distant like a way stepped down off his agent we get every one lines up and we talk questions and you korowai
this time with was like if that of answering one person's question just to that person i was a harrogate after graniteware is new a at her like she he weatherell people standing
in line yet in said i answering this one question is one guy whispering now havin come up here when i and you can all hear this he is what's ther who knows maybe the one of these
questions may be tomentine in a future otoo ye you might as well listen and maybe you have a better solution than i have yet to like the like a little little bring rateable hebron
ready bold that that's true you we take break everyone weren't there's break throughout the million out you're going to be a jason think o no ouranbad time i talk to soggy home of
a saliently sign a book whatever ye no greenroom no grensel that's the master um and by the way they sold out all of them that we've done have been sold out now the next one that
we got coming up in september fourteen and fifteen factoree and down town san diego california musters erizo its gun a call out this is a known fact so you want to come it's
september fourteen con fifteenth that is rateros the comers if you want to come to that come to that extreme ownership dot com is or you can register if you want through also
mitey this is interesting if you train you gito or if you're interested in training to tito origin up in maine has this amergin camp that they do in going echoes going with me
we're going up there it is there's two sessions that they run it's the twentieth august twenty this twenty third or august twenty fourth hinteth seventh those of the two different
sets in ortonello week anyways i'm going to be there for those middle three days i tuesday wednesday thursday so i'm going to be there for the last day of the first camp on the
first day of the last of the second camp and i'll be on there on the middle day were going to be training rolling talking hanging out eating lobster eating steaks ah just
generally getting after it so you an origin man do come if you were come up there's not a lot of space is for that they it's it's it not that like i think the most ataneg two
hundred people is a less now atiba's so you are come up bridges quick and all seyus up there in maine i'm going to what i like about it is unlike the muster where everything is
scheduled by we don't have a lot of break time anyone out work and this thing i mean you daly trange you get to what six hours a day manitou now what i mean two hours in the
morning two hours a launch two hours in the evening ali so that six hours you know you go to sleep for hours setout fourteen hours left in the day so we are we going to do here in
the kite yeah orinoco there's a lake there is a ax there's a is it blinds and whatever the old just go lay in bent and trying recomforted guessin ef so ye um bunchie coming up
after that you want to come up and hang out do it and that will work will see up there either at the master or will see you and at the emerson chickenstalker gister for the one
origination and wenlock on the emerson thing in you find it you will you press goguette a certain element of like of you can't figure it out the better he and is also sir norman
of like a register now and he and go to this thing all he acted reciter to day you have always think to day here i know they said in you to day by the time this potashes out it
won't even be to day beats ah all right also until where at one of those events if you want to roll with us virtue we are on the ateneo the twitter the instigator echo is at
eaters i amajoni in finely thank you to every one foisting to this podcast and for supporting this poast which by the way is made possible by our military who protects our great
nation from evil this porcatus made possible by police landforce firefighters kempe first responder that keep us safe and orderly here at home and it's made possible by each every
one you out there working in the economy making and creating and building so don't stop doing that and don't ever stop or remembering those that went before us those that still
shine down on us and remember that we are not here long and time is fleeting it is ever pleading so you might as well make it a good hard run then get after it so until next time
this is echo and jocko owen
