this is jack a pat gasped number eighty five with a charles and me joaille good evening echo it evening i was given a very old man who could not or would not keep up with his
countrymen because he repeated the fell and then simply lay there i regularly had to lift him up and drag him forward thus i only reached the execution sight when my comrades had
already shot their jews at the sight of his countrymen who had been shot my due threw himself on the ground and remained lying there i then cocked my car being and shot him
through the back of the head because i was already very upset from the cruel treatment of the jews during the clearing of the town and with completely in teroi i shot too high the
entire back of the skull of my due was torn off in the brain exposed parts of the skull flew into sergeant steinmetz's face this was grounds for me after returning to the trunk to
go to the first sergeant and asked for my release i had become so sick that i simply couldn't any more i was then relieved by the first sergeant systematic murder that's what
we're talking about this is the not the final solution which was not always carried out in the relatively detached method often fog of when we think of wolgast cousin we think of
the holocaust a lot of times we think this big mechanism we think of trains we think of gas chambers we think of process we think of a massive purgati machine that is doing the
killing in it may be that in some way is easier for us to understand and that's what we focus on that piece it's easier for us to accept that but it was an all like that many
wives were taken many murders committed by hand at close range point blank so what kind of monsters committed those atroces those personal a truss up close and personal murders
that covered the murderers in the blood of their victims what what kind of men were though and how did they end up there in what can we do to prevent it from a crying again now to
answer or least trying come to some understanding or going to explore a book that is called ordinary men reserve police battalion one hundred one and the final solution in poland
ridden by christopher are browning and that first exert that i read is from that book and is from a soldier in the police batalion named august son and that's actually of a
suiteth names were changed for some of the notes in the book but the book is the incredibly detailed in what happened and where these men were from and what unfolded and obviously
this is going to be a graphic episode and you you know i actually wish i didn't have to talk about this i do i really do i wish i could talk about nicer things i wish i could talk
about pleasant things and we could just forget about all this horror but i there's the rub because even though it would be easier and more pleasant to talk about something nice
the problem is that if we forget about these things than we forget about these things and if we forget we don't learn and if we don't learn about what it humans can do and why
they do what they do then we can repeat or mistakes and that is of so we go because we astorgo when we go back to the book just as the sky was beginning to lighten the convoy
halted outside hosiphat a typical polish village of modest white houses with thatched straw roofs among its inhabitants work eiteen hundred jews village was totally quiet the men
of reserved police battalion of one or one climbed down from their trucks in assembled in the half circle around their commander major vilhelm trap a fifty three year old career
pleaceman affectionately known by his men as papa trap the time it come for trapt dress the man and informed them of the assignment the bitaniti ed pale and nervous with choking
voice and tears in his eyes trappistines as he spoke the battalion he said plaintively had to perform a frightful unpleasant task this asien was not to his liking indeed it was
highly regrettable but the orders came from the highest authorities if it would make the task and the easier the men should remember that in germany the bombs were falling on
women and children then he turned to the matter at hand the jews had instigated the american boy caught that had damaged germany one policeman remembered trap saying there were
jews in the village of yusupov who were involved with the partisans he explained according to two others the battalion had now been ordered to round up these juice the male jews
of working age were to be separated in taken to a work camp the remaining juice the women children and elderly were to be shot on the spot by the battalion having explained what
awaited his men trapped made them an extraordinary offer if any of the older men among them did not feel up to the task that lay before them good step out trap paused and after
some moments one man from third company odo julius chinky stepped forward captain hoffman who had arrived in osapho directly from zacori with third boon of third company and had
not been part of the officers meetings the day before was furious that one of his men had been the first to break recks hoffman begin to berate chimki but trap calm after he had
taken him kinder his protection some ten or twelve other men stepped forward as well they turned in the rifles and were told to a weight of further simon from the major so it will
go into this but you've got a a a battalion three companies there's probably five hundred men and we have devotissima order that they're going to go and shoot though women
children and elderly all the spot in this village with pretty white houses and the commander the sky trap who obviously isn't comfortable with it he's got tears in his eyes when
he's given his word he says a adybody wasn't one o participate you can step forward now and like ten or twelve people out of five monenset forward the rest of them a hole the line
in this case going back to the book trapped then summoned the company commanders and gave them the respective simon the orders road roared by the puentener to pocono third company
were to surround the village the men were explicitly ordered to shoot any one trying to escape the remaining men were to round up the jews and take them to the market place those
two sick or frail to walk to the market place as well as infants in any one offering resistance or attempting to hide were to be shot on the spot there after a few men of the
first company were escorted were to escort the work jews who had been selected at the market place while the rest of first company was to proceed to the forest to form firing
squads the jews were to be loaded on to italian truck by second company and third paton of third company and shuttled from the market place to the forest he met for executions
after making the assignments traps spent most of the day in town either in a school room converted into his head quarters at the homes of the polish mayor and at the local priest
at the market place or on the road to the forest but he did not go to the forest itself or witnessed the executions his absence there was conspicuous as one policeman burly
commented major trap was never there instead he remained in ouipo because he could allegedly could not bear the sight we men were upset about that and said we couldn't bear either
indeed traps distress was a secret to no one at the marketplace one policeman remembered hearing traps out say oh god why did i have to be given these orders as he put his hand on
his heart another policeman witnessed him at the school house to day i conceive exactly before my eyes made your trap in the room pacing back and forth with his hands behind his
back he made a downcast impression and spoke to me he said something like man such jobs don't suit me but orders are orders another man remembered vividly how trap finally alone
nor room sat on a stool and wept bitterly the tears really flowed to her that that idea that orders are orders unstand doesn't work bacolor has the round up neared completion the
men of first company were withdrawn from the search and given a quick lesson in the goose an task that awaited them they were instructed by the battalion doctor and the company's
first sergeant when this is a coat from one of the men i believe that at this point all the offshoot lion were present especially are batalion position doctor shoe felder he now
had to explain to us precisely how we had to shoot in order to induce the immediate death of the victim i remember exactly that for this demonstration he drew or outline the
contour of a human body at least from the shoulders upward and then indicated precisely the point on which the fixed bayonet was to be placed as an aiming guide so we have the
battalion doctor whose instructing some of the men and indurated settat i wasn't all of them to take the bayonet which is all their rifle put it on the back of the neck as an
aiming guide to nowhere exactly where to shoot back to the book first sergeant came had taken the initial contingent of shooters and first company to a forest several comets from
osipitch halted on a droad that ran along the edge at a point where a pathway led into the woods the men climbed down from their trucks and waited when the first shock load of
thirty five to forty jews arrived an equal number of policemen came forward and face to face were paired off with their victims led by came the policemen in jus marched down the
forest path they turned off into the woods at a point indicated by captain woodus himself throughout the day selecting the execution sites cameran ordered the jews to lie down in
a room the policeman stepped up behind them placed their bayonets on the back bone above the shoulder blade as instructed earlier and on camers command fired in unison in the mean
time more policemen of first company had arrived at the edge of the forest of phillotson firing squad as the first fire squawmash out of the woods to the unloading point the
second group took their victims along the same path into the woods all half chose a sight of you at yards farther on to the next batch of victims would not see the corpses from
the earlier execution these jews were again forced to lie face down in a row and the shooting pursuite was repeated thereafter the pendulum traffic of the two firing squads in and
out of the woods continued throughout the day except for a mid day break the shooting proceeded without interruption until night fall at some point the afternoon some one
organized a supply of alcohol for the shooters by the end of day of nearly continuous shooting the men i completely lost track of how many jews they had each killed in the words
of one policeman it was in any case a great number so clearly this is not what we think of them we think of the holocaust go ben being paired off with their victims to take out
the woods and shot in the back of the head and going through this procedure the entire day back to the book in contrast to first company the men of second company received no
instruction on how to carry out the shooting initially bayonets were not fixed as an aiming guide and as herder noted there was a considerable number of mishosha led to the
unnecessary wounding of the victims on the policemen in herdrine likewise noted the difficulty the men had an aiming properly at first we shot free hand when one aimed through
high the entire scolloped as a consequence brains and bones flew everywhere thus we were instructed to place the bayonet point on the neck according to herder however using fixed
bayonet as an aiming guide was no solution through the point blank shot though the point blank shot that was thus required the bullet struck the head of the victim an such a
ejector that often the entire scholar at least the entire rear skulk cap was torn off and blood bone splinters in brain sprayed everywhere and besmirched the shooters her ger was
so emphatic that no one had first button was given the option of withdrawing before hand but once the executions began and men approached either hammer sheer because they could
not shoot women and children they were given other duties this was confirmed by one of his men during the execution worsed that any one who could not take it any longer could
report he went he then went on to note i myself took part in some ten shootings in which i had to shoot men and women i simply could not shoot at people any more which became a
parent to my sergeant herder because at the end i repeatedly shot past for this reason he relieved me other comrades were also relieved sooner or later because they simply could
no longer continue so obviously there inexorabilis hole thing from the top of the chain of command right down to the front by suitors that are only able to do this so many times
some of them out hout of it initially but let's remember that it still taking place in no one stopping it no one so someone people are excusing themselves for it but there's no
one saying hey what the howle doing right now back to the book some of the men who hurried it their task shot far more juice in others crudelis much as they could after two rounds
one policeman simply slipped off and stayed among the tracks at the edge of the forest another manage to avoid taking his turn with the shooters altogether and here's a quote from
him it was in no way the case that those who did not want to or could not carry out the shooting of human beings with their own hands could not keep themselves out of a task no
strict control was being carried out here i therefore remained by the arriving trucks and kept myself busy at the arrival point in any case i gave my activity such an appearance
it could not be avoided that one or another of my comrades noticed that i was not going to the executions to fire away at the victims a shower me with remarks such as ship head
and weakling to express their disgust but i suffered no consequences for my actions i must mention here that i was not the only one who kept himself out of participating in the
executions so guys like i said have figured out that bacon not participate if they don't want to and they're getting called cowards and in weaklings by the guise that are actually
cowards and weaklings that are going out and in executing people back to the book as we first company alcohol was made available to the policeman one drunker and steinmetz who
stayed in the forest and vantine shooting as darkness approached at the end of a long summer day and the murders task were still not finished the shooting became even less
organized and more hectic but forest would so full of dead bodies that it was difficult to find places to make the jews lie down so they complete this massacre and they had back
to their barracks and i recoba to the book when the men arrived back at the barracks they were depressed angered in bittered and shaken they ate little but during heavily generous
quantities of alcohol or provided and many of the policemen got quite drunk major trap made the rounds trying to console and reassure them and again placing the responsibility on
higher authorities placing responsibility on i retorted you not old to do that but neither the drink nor chaps consolation could wash away the sense of shame and horror that
pervaded the barracks so that was that the first police action that they did this with this took place in poland it was the first time that the group had to ply to poland and to
give you you know when you we hear what they did ye you hear some people that that had our time with it but still like i said that was a small percentage per cent maybe fifteen
per cent of people that said no on oconostota that he grew or made themselves busy with other things most the guide just when the head and dewatered and you think you're some one
had well coolworth guys were they hardened to combat venerator the front byng wore they were they young sort of brain washed not youth that were that that's what they believed in
and they degoutte mind to saw that as the reality that they had to go through with and this is the strange thing about this book is that that now what it is that's not wooes guys
were and now go to the book to talk about who they actually were for the most part reserved but reserve police potalon one o one was now composed of men without any experience of
german occupation methods in eastern europe or for that matter with exception of the very old estonola one veterans any kind of military service most his gasaton the military the
botaniste of eleven officers five administrative officials in charge of financial matters relating to praying politicising lodging et cetera and four hundred eighty six non
commissioned officers and men the potion was to vidaine three companies each of a pronando forty men when at full strength to companies were commanded by police captains and third
by a certain scene reserve lieutenant napatan each company was divided in the three partons to them commanded by reserve of tenants and the third by a patonee sergeant so this is
kind of a normal military make up the battalion was commanded by fifty three year old major will helm trap warnant veteran and recipient of the iron cross first class now we know
wolmaran obviously was a brutal war an he's a survivor of that a ward of the iron cross first class fought for germany and lost what he do after work back to the book after the
war he became a career policeman and rose through the ranks he recently been promoted from captain of second company and this was his first totaling command though trap had joined
the nazi party and december of nineteen thirty two in thus technically qualified as an old party fighter or altercate he had never been taken in the assessor even given an
equivalent assessor in spite of the fact that hamlen hydric const tried the merge and intertwine to state and party components of their asses police empire trap was clearly not
considered sesmai so the an anour going to see this these guys i mean a war on an so why are these guys in a police biting as opposed to being on the front lines fighting the war
the reason is because there not quite the right material to ganesin and by the way this is the owego get to a point soon in the war whether fourteen year old head laushong out to
fight but these guys aren't aren't being selected back to the book he was soon to come into conflict with his two captains both young as as men who even in their testimony more
than twenty years later made no attempt to conceal their contempt for their commander as weak unmilitary and unduly interfering in the duties of his officers so he's got a couple
police captains that were a lot litore hard cord when we tell you about them wolfgang hoff men he was born nighttown sixteen years old was in hitler youth in nineteen thirty two
at eighteen he was in the ass graduated from jim nasum which as a college preparatory high school nineteen thirty four during the police force in nineteen thirty six entered of
not subordinate thirty seven same year completed please training was commissioned as a lieutenant and now he's in the reserves in nineteen forty two reserved police petain one o
one so he decompte the ranks you know as a note but still even him i mean his formative years his born in nineteen fourteen so you know if not like it all he knew you know he went
from nineteen fourteen to what nineteen thirty three nankeen thirty sir he was sixteen years old he had been formed the you know live the sanom german before the note party was
around were not talking a brain washed complete nopte same thing with the other guy born in nineteen thirteen is as gjellerup from gymnasium joined the nazianzen thirty three
nineteen thirty six became as as so these guys are more yet the older more engaged in the whole not the party and obviously telling the line a long enough now the seats the two
police captains that are in charge of a couple of the companies inside the battalion now with talk a little bit about the men the men aged generally from thirty three to forty
eight years old a five repartees none of em belonged to the asses of the back to back of the thirty two non commission officers on whom we have information twenty two or party
members and seven or ness they ranged in age from twenty seven to forty years old their average age was thirty three and a half they were not reserves but rather pre war recruits
to the police of the rank and file senorita about the troops of full a hundred blustrous of the rank and file of vast maturity were from the hamburg area sixty three per cent the
working class background but few were skilled laborers the majority of them held typical hamburg working class jobs dock workers and truck drivers were most numerous but there all
so many warehouse and construction workers echinodermates seamen and waiters about thirty five per cent below middle class virtue all the white collar workers three quarters then
were in sales of some sort the other one quarter form darius office jobs in both government and private sector but number of an denuder of independent artisans and small
businesses business men were very small me a handful to present were middle class profession professionals and very modest ones at that such as drugs and teachers the average age
of the men was thirty nine over half were between thirty seven and forty two a group considered too old for the army but most heavily conscripted for reserve police duty after
september ninetythree nine to these go so that got the men are art there their thirty forty years old thirty five forty years old these gustave fully developed right their another
not you know rational molatter not impressionable guys that are just raised inside a not ocsem what's face it if your raised in any uh coltish religion scenario there's a drill
good chance the sassetto are going to leave it and you don't understand any other way of thinking so you can i'm pion no you can be excused but it's understandable that how you
end up that way ye back to the book the man of reserved please batalion war from the lower orders of german society they had experienced neither social nor geographic mobility by
virtue of their age and hers were rejetait virtue of their age of course all went through their formative period in pre nay are here these were men on lad known political
standards and moral norms other than those of the notes most came from hamburg by reputation when the least not to fight cities in germany and the majority came from a social
class that had been antinoeus political culture these men would not seem to have been a very promising group from which to recruit mass murderers all the half on behalf of natives
of a racial utopia free of jews and i think the title was book is ordinary men and that's why because that's horologue her ordinary men mattha's a that's about a a clear cross
section of society than you could come up with them and comes prosecuting america on a guise work in its construction workers waiters truck drivers dock workers i mean that's what
that's what people do oh what age day the thirty five forty years old on kay these at the group that you think is going to be all your malta out and get him to murder thousands
and thousands of people face to face okay now there's a a section here the reflections on the massacres and its talking about this first like i said this first thing that took
place in yourself was the the first big action as a group so he regulate book at you so at yourselfer dozen men out of nearly five hundred responded instinctively to major traps
offered to step for it excused themselves from the impending mass murder why was a number of men from the beginning declared themselves who from the beginning to clothesless upon
the willing to shoot so small an e cut offs explanation here like the suddenness of it hum and and if people are kind of surprised and and i i can make some of that rightly give
you if i gave you time if they fiftieth echo we got to go to the thing right now you fido that okay cool let's go do it but if i said hey ehooero to go to something to barrator
you know i'll pick you up at ten thirty let me know well ere you have time to contemplate yet so he surprised him with it ah there's all also obviously there was purprestures
right in if you can't fill em and you know that that's going to play rollant lk about that more later going back to book back to buck noellet the act of stepping out that morning
in yourself men aving one's comrades and admitting that one was too weak or cowardly who would have dared one policeman declared emphatically to lose face before the assembled
troops if the questions posed me why i shot with the others in the first place said another who subsequently asked to be excused to after several rounds of killing i must answer
that no one wants to be thought a coward it was one thing to refuse at the beginning he added and quite another de tryingest but not be able to continue another policeman moral
were of what truly required courage said quite simply i was cowardly so that person gets it you tellee people are that the shooters are saint at want to be a coward some one to go
shoot when actually to stand up and say no that's what would it taken real moral corcoran his porch an an obviously these guisona they were doing was well they knew it that's why
they're some of the more naleenah now speaking of cowardly hears a little section that i thought we should be pointed out and we were talking about this before the poassible
rationalized things ye all this in this rationalization perhaps the most distorting rationalization of all was that of a thirty five year old metal worker from brimmer even quote
i may be effort and it was possible for me to shoot only children it so happened that the mothers led the children by the hand my neighbour and shot the mother and i shot the
child that belonged to her because i reasoned with myself that after all without its mother the child could not live any longer it was supposed to be so to speak soothing to my
conscience to release the children unable to live without their mothers and actually he goes in here and talks about the german word for release also means to like redeem or save
so the scissor really twisted things up in his head the dangers of rationalization right there good god back the book with fusees the whole question of anti semitism is marked by
silence so this is interesting this is very interesting he eateth as they and in nationalite his out earlier but this book is based on all these different interviews and witness
accounts mostly of the policemen themselves now and again i should appoint this opingon of course people are making witness statements in there's all kinds of problems with those
right i don't remember things correctly their trying to protect themselves their trying to protect their friends their trying to indite certain people would make them look like
the bad guy they might be trying to make themselves a good usal these a canonges that you have to listen to the rest understand this with you but this is interesting as the
interview these guys back to the book with few exceptions a whole question of anti semitism is marked by silent what is clear is that the men's concern for their standing in the
eyes of their comrades was not matched by any sense of human ties with their victims the jew stood outside their circle of human obligation and responsibility such polarization
between us and them between one's comrades and the enemy is of course standard in war and it is indeed but i i guess what surprised me as these guides warn't going in there with
thinking themselves okaihau that are done us wrong and we're going to get our chance they were just content with her not us room so well do we have to do back to the book even
twenty or twenty five years later those crude quit shooting along the way overwhelmingly sighted sheer physical revulsion against what they were doing as the prime motive but the
not express any africa or political principles behind this revalenta interesting these guys were stopping because it it made them feel sick and they weren't saying look i knew so
i i i actually when i've been saying as i have these guys knew it was wrong well they didn't think of it as wrong or it least thesis explaining that they weren't thinking all this
is so wrong thee think it was i'm going to be sick now any rational person can figure out that if something makes you sick to do then you've got some deep seated knowledge that
what you're doing is wrong yet it seems like that thou was like the the moral part of it right around with the that wasn't the primary the primary was just i can't take the blood
and got out man i can't take the boat and got jattura right now like i said there's a connection and no don't think he makes in the book when it my mind as a connection if you're
doing something that makes you feel sick teeth not just the making feel sick that's should be botherin you what should be bother us the fact that you're doing something to make
you feel sick there's a reason why it makes you feel sick there's a reason why human beings feel sick when there laying down children shooting in the back of the head there's a
reason for that that's a that's a that's a a cup like a survival instant right for your for your species to carry on yer you have to make the the other members of your species
survive yet speclations they weren't there wasn't like some enemy can a feeling towards the feel like earlier defending ourselves at this enemy you know wasn't that is just that
it was essentially the minimum requirement radogast the muddy bernada yea and he could have gone to the scillitane right it's not it's not like the sea he said atherstone children
being bound back in germany right now but there is no direct correlation they're not saying hey look these jews are fighting us they're goin a theriaki over they've got ground in
youknow on our borders and known in utsayantha actually in total control in the of the jews at this point or they're not totara they're getting really close getting really close
back to the book the resentment and bitterness in the batalion over what they had been asked to do and yeeped by virtually every one even those who had shot the entire day the
exclamation of one policeman to first sergeant camera of the first company that i'd go crazy if i had to do that again expressed the sentiments of many but few went beyond
complaining to extricate themselves from such a possibility to thousand wenerated very few of them said actually made a stand the most dramatic boodhist dramatic response again
was that of lieutenant buckman who asked trapped to have him transferred back to hamburg and declared that short of a direct personal order from trap he would not take part in
jewish actions in the end he wrote to hamburg explicitly requesting a recall because he was not suited to certain tasks alien to the police that were being tarried out by his
union poled buckman had waited had to wait until the ember but his efforts to be transferred wartime successful so there's a guy that that's one guy that their sighting that
actually said due i not gone to do this now it was bad enough and did have a bad enough effect on the men and they complained about enough that there was some changes so he recoba
the book in subscriptions to vital changes were introduced hence forth with some notable expect exceptions adhered to first most of the future operations of the reserve but police
battalion one o one involved genola and deportation not how right massacre on the spot the policeman were thus relieved of the immediate horror of the killing process which for
deportes from the northern lubinest was carried out in the extermination camp at trebona so now when not going to you on if you go shoot em you jest got to gather him up and get a
get him ship off to the extermination camp second wall deportation was a horrifying procedure characterized by the terrible course of violence needed to drive people on to the
death trains as well as the systematic killing of those who could not be marched through the trains these actions were generally undertaken jointly by events of reserved lisbonne
a one and the chartrands ses trained auxiliaries from the soviet territories recruited from the rush and peocalus and usually assigned to the very worst parts the genocide
hortation self imagined this group you get a group of fogs that are from russ and pewmonia yeweller campin you can come work for us moon and their trained by the assanow exactly a
friendly crew of guise in fact that's like i can't imagine a worse group of people to come and and come after you ye back wabache bulk of the killing was to be removed to the
extermination camping the worst of the an the spot dirty work was to be assigned to the tune dictis change would prove sufficient to allow the men of reserve police petalia one o
one to become accustomed to their participation in the final solution when the time came to kill again the policeman did not go crazy instead they became increasingly efficient
and callous executioners so capcases it was obviously with a little too much for me to actually do all the killing themselves now they got some people to help em out and or they
argos can agathe him up and ship and wandle down at the only plan a little piece in the loopin machine me right disolit piece of shenstone asier to detach from what's actually
happening back to the book the jews of lemaire to be the target of reserve battalion one of one's first joint killing action with the unit from the trunk second company was to
provide the bulk of the man power for the round up the primary function the ternewe unit was to provide the shooters thus alleviating the chief psychological burden the german
policeman had experienced at yesapan here the the orders come out their going in and now there's another term that comes up it's it's it has to do the trinight it's here and it's
short i forget with the german words are but he leases rt for two big german words one of them that means a willing and one of them a means helper so they called these the sort of
people that had come to the german's eye and were not nicolean it it's like i said it's dancer willing helper it's like it's like using you heard the term speck war that's as were
special warfare this is the same thing with jerk to german words that mean willing helper so he roback to book the end hes were told that the he wes from tony would do the
shooting so the policeman would for the most part be spared none the less the round up was to be conducted as had been done before which is to say that infants and the old sick
and frail we could not be easily taken to the sembly point were to be shot on the spot for notemaking according to one suaviter however most children will once again brought these
embly point as nepo the men encountered not only german jews but specifically hamburg jews during the clearing action the jews quickly filled the school yard and overflowed into
the adjoining sports field with some shooting the round up was finished in two short hours not a naterel sort of a one sentence and if you can just try an imagine what the hell is
going on there these soldiers these russian soldiers these germans will come in in and rounding people up their using violence shooting people to get all the jews into the school
yard this is a nightmare senario that they must that you know he puts in a sentence here back to the book the seventeen hundred jews of the maie were then forced to sit and wait a
group of six year seventy young men were selected out given shovels and spades loaded on to trucks and driven to the woods several of the young jews jumped from the moving trucks
and made good their escape another attacked a german corporal to atala boxing champing champion who promptly knocked his desperate assailant senseless in the woods the jews were
set to digging a mas grave back in the maze the weight of the doomed jews and their police guard stretched into hours suddenly a contingent of fifty he wes from the tuning key
martintown but by german assess officer i can still remember exactly one policeman testified that immediately after the arrival of these troyes took a break after the arrival the
tributes took a break i saw that in addition to food they also took out bottles of vodka out of their packs and drink from them the ass officer and mad teigue arrived on the scene
now dead began drinking heavily as well the other entos smelled of alcohol but on like the two commanders were not visibly drunk so these gazer are drinking vodka and they know it
the about to have to go do now we're talking about this guy lieutenant ned lieutenant nay was a knotty by conviction and an anti semi he was also unpredictable affable and
approachable at times of predal and vicious and others then here's an eye witness account from one of the soldiers back to the book even before the shooting began first lieutenant
made pat personally picked out some twenty to twenty five elderly jews they were exclusively men with full beards nae made the old man crawl on the ground in the area before the
grave before he gave them the order to crawl they had to undress while the totally naked jujus crawled first atending maid screamed to those around were my non commissioned
officers don't you have any clubs yet the nockamixon officers went to the edge of the forest fetched themselves clubs and vigorously beat the jews with them they get the mass
grave dog and he regummed ately large numbers of jews were driven into the grave and the he weston their position on the walls that had been thrown up from there they shot the
victims as the shooting continued the grave began to fill the jews who followed had to climb on and later later even clamber over those shot earlier because the grave was filled
with corpses almost to the edge the intoe decided that the execution should continue with two firing squads on opposite sides of the grave the jews were forced to lie down in rows
alongside each other each side of the grave and were shot by the police standing on the opposite wall men from all three petonar in the squaws of eight to ten and were relieved by
others in a rotation after five or six shots after about two hours the heese rat roused from their stupor and resumed shooting in place the german policemen the suiting was
finished around seven pm and the work jews who had been kept a side covered the grave the work jews were then shot as well the thin covering of the overfilled grave continued
domovoy got people at ernother meanterave alive in there was a part at i didn't cover basically the he wescot too drunk to continue on and to the police had to go in dicterion a
while and then they kindhered but this is the hisitating that we're talking about is a complete night mare back to book one other factor sharply distinguished lomas from oopoa may
well of been yet another kind of psychological relief for the men namely and this is important from foma psychological in from a learchus it on a solanaceae other factor made
sharply distinguished lamaso yoseph and may well have been yet another kind of psychological relief for the men namely this time they did not bear the burden of choice that
trapped offered them so starkly on the occasion of the first massacre no chance to step out was given to those who did not feel up to the shooting no one systematic reexpose those
who revisable too shaken to continue every one assigned to the firing squad took his turn as a warder therefore those who shot did not have to live with clear wareness that they
had what they had done had been unavoidable so that's a big difference the big difference in from a leadership perspective that something that i i actually talked about this
before um it's interesting when we were remote you know we asking a bruiser we kin decided what we were going to do i you know we we want getting told god do this as a everything
that we did we did because we decided that it was we could mitigate the risk and weaker take beranger tion and we could there's area that we could do a good job and so we had a
lot of control over our fate and that's that's actually can be psychologically heavier because if something goes wrong it's all it's all on you as the leader whereas the
leadership tea or even as the guide that are on a pontoon man to point men selecting his own the only go down the front refolutions the point man is selecting the route if he had
nigh sure you know it's it's the enemies fall to nobotty's sake it himself winches that rope yes now the army they they did have some control they had more often than not the
beginning told the hauran a petrol on the road or hear going to go at this building so they were relieved often times of that freedom of choice so the freedom matures can be a
little bit of a burden and so what happened here was the freedom ecorces taken away and that burden was therefore to cook you're going to shut up and do this gossamer cause ye
have like if you have that choice like him back to the part with his twelve guys stepped out and home and yet we can look at it as the guide i stepped out i have more courage
because they are not essentially this too things to be kind of scared of or have courage again straight one is okay i'm not scared to kill these people ogeeohee roof and then
there's i'm not scared to go against the norm yet you don't either tiger kind a thing much harder yet and that and you have the choice which one are you going to do you know if
you if they give you the cutleaf out if you want what are you a doin that eros looking at you like okay are you goin to i wonder what is tipping point would have been in other
words like an shows to do it or if ten people but then would if it was thirty yemenites forty a hawaiian a crowd yes you see that stupid video wintersen guy he's dancing by
himself in its alansone viral videas it can a old school i don't know but it's it's a stupid viral video you don't have to go watching yourself in onsettles a guy they are like
some kind of a concert some kind of outdoor concert there's a guid dancing by himself yet he's dancing by self for a long time and that that's why i saw bescumber sackbut crop or
the use assansol of group psychology the guy's dancing for by herself for a long time and what there actually say is that the person that has the courage is he is actually the
second person that joins him oh so anyway as the one person entitative self for several minutes to know then another port person joined him hum one the other person joins him then
all of a sudden five people and then it's twenty people and then the inextensive one is dancing a and i wonder what the tipping point would have been here yet i owe you get ten
people out of five hundred that wasn't enough yet that's greet you know what if it all of a sudden fifteen twenty thirty forty people would a step forward and then all of a sudden
does it is everyone says he we're not doing this ye ye think if they knew i wonder they knew for sure that there wasn't going to you know a phismicaries names lili think it was
the suddenness that day talked about the book ahilud set okay listen to morrow if we're goin to do where do you onto allouch of women and children point blank range in the woods
ye you're have to shoot em all yet let me not if your down yeah in and if if you done that but then given them hours to sit there and think about it yet and then the next guy
think he when he ontonagan spread the that peer pressure was hard core that that i mean now art court so that yet he fishflakes said if there scared of the authority it's like
cateto be pungent be more for sure but like you know you do something like you know your example or or year he yever see you know you see this all the time where you say some
oronsay you say something in a cool not you know it's not the end of your prince presentation you say something conical and then one guy search clapping and then emeralder clapp
road on one is kind of that thing were this no consequence to clapping so it's like right oh shoot that's all weddell clap i feel good about clapping on in to do it and i don't
inating there's no real resistance so the time points going to be one guy that's the divining but you get something where there is going to be there might be some resistance from
risk you know of pain or you know whatever hanumen yet to empoisonne more and think of how under what that is met man because not likely that not herein was very understanding no
no no no i nonentity much you can say that most military units are very understanding a you know there's the had to be a certain level of like catenated there's disappointing
place for every reason and you can get away eritage look you can't sorter people to do things only last for so long yeut how long didn't need to last year and only need to last a
night honered needham do to night you know well okay we we we got through our mission and now i'll let them you know what i do do he actually let him go get drunk on and i talked
to him and and he built up some more leadership capital because he expended it expended a bunch of his lear shikapore get this mission done and now he's got to rebuild it and reap
kind o get big develop as relationship again with a guy and and bring in some other changes hey looker not going to all the killing the time so ye man created it i thought it was
pretty surprising and i'd be kind of a few cancaline refreshing to know that they didn't get that much punishment aside from some name calling you know could needn't think of the
like that i think twenty when you think of it like all this in you don't aniente people sigellaria named callear and atsan ther thing that they prothalamion said tapping point yeh
yeh in the relay that to gustate forward they might have fought agittin the ditch because they are maiden cover this parker there's there's definitely some part to as like cable
put you in the ditch that's only wetarhoo now your job yet but i think that reveals the discomfort of the overaction at her wenlock in at their body saying no i'm an kill you now
they are like a actually i kind of agree with you but you just say over there no follonica so the next situation that they get into or these deportations to tablinum and here we
go back to the buck while the policemen did not know precisely with he jews were being sent or what was being done with them it was all clear and well known to all of us as
hindrickson metsemee that for the jews affected these deportations meant the path the death we suspected that they would be killed in some sort of camp spared direct participation
in the killing the men of reserved biplace potion one o one seemed scarcely so to have been disturbed by the sowerness even though there were more victims in the deportations than
an yoseph or lomasa hers combined out of sight was truly out of mind so now there in this mode of their just doing the deportations now i siggesson the deportations and i don't
want to make that sound like it wasn't a brutal vicious exercise that they were doing weegeet the book driven by the he weasand policeman fousands of juice steamed into the market
place streamed in the market place here they had to sit or scawthorne their getting up as the hours passed on this very hot august of the late summer heat wave many jews fainted
and collapsed moreover beating and shooting continued in the market place the donno if i could at this inherent to it but these guys that they there shooting people boeang out wet
said the whipping people it's brutal back to the book one final horror was reserved to the end for the train cars now had to be loaded while the he weaves in security police
packed a hundred and twenty two hundred forty jews into each car the reserve policeman stood guard and observed as one remembered when it didn't go well they made use of writing
whips and guns the loading was simply frightful there was an unearthly cry from these poor people because ten or twenty cars were being loaded simultala the entire freight train
was dreadfully long one could not see all of it i may have been fifty to sixty cars if not more and after a car was loaded the doors were closed and nailed shut once all the cars
were sealed the men of reserved restoration one old one quickly departed without waiting to see the train pull away the guys did their little part of the job and they're going to
walk away now but yeats's an again it's a nightmare senario continuing on shortly before the deep potation program resumed in northern securities on reserved piseetion one o one
was involved in several more masthoops so there's a couple of times that they don't get the help that they had before going back to the book without the experienced help of the he
wes will all organized the executions along the lines of usipetes osopotoil the groups of twenty to thirty jews which had been more tototo in succession to gravel pits were turned
over to an equal number of peters and ere commandos thus each policeman once again faced the individual jew was going to shoot the jews will not force to undress nor was there a
collection of valuables there was also no selection for labor all the jews regardless of agent sex were to be shot so that that you know in the earlier ones they were stripping
him down and collecting their ales and not even do that and i bet they're not doing that because when you do that you're getting some kind of a interaction you're seeing their
personal items and they don't want to that to take him out shoot him easiely odicals waited do it back to the book the policemen in the shooting commandos marched their juice the
crest of one of the mounds of waste material in the area of the gravel pits the victims were lined up facing a six foot drop from a short distance behind the policeman fired on
the order into the necks of the jews the bodies tumbled over the edge following each round the next group of jews was brought up to the same spot and thus had to look down at the
growing pile of corpses of their family and friends before they were shot in turn only after a number of rounds did the shooter's changed sights here some more deportation
operations their back to do in deportations back to the book but even the most unfettered violence could not overcome the shortage of train cars and when the doors were finally
fore shot about a hundred and fifty jews mostly women and children but also some men remained nay says that same lieutenant say test summoner and told him to take these juices
cemetery at the cemetery entrance the policeman chased away the eager spectators and waited until first sergeant astman arrived in a truck with a supply of vodka for the shooters
asement rned to one of his men who had hitherto avoided shooting and chided him drink up now five fer your informis time because the jewess must be shot you've got yourself out of
it so far but now you must go to it an execution squarefoot twenty men were sent into the cemetery the jews were brought and goupin men first and then women and children they were
first a lie down near the cemetery wall and then shot from behind the neck each policeman fired seven or eight times at the cemetery gate one due spring a drunk erith a syringe
atasil subdued the other just quietly awaiting their fate even after the shooting began they were quite emaciated and looked half starved to death one guard remembered them the
initiator in her not in the kandadai we should cover it but you know these jews that were now i getting round it up they were already in most the it well in some occasion a book
they were already in these ghettos jewish genos blakeley been forced into these gets there now just living there starving but their living and and then the germans didn't no more
juice they wanted the areas i think that ward was duane was a prey of jews so now even these people in the end by the way there was some some of the germans that complained like
hey those are my laborers you can't come my labors nough or kill inever one so even again it's not like this is an enemy with a threat these people were now completely subdued
living in these in these howcome getuli prison ghettoes their living in other no frattanto but they round him up take him out kill now one of the interesting points that they
bring up the book and a onaccommodating but it's worth mentioning is that this guy hoffman gonedotti he has this strange stomach illness i he gets upset to his stomach so here
were yulee misses some of the actions or at least he's not there present with the executions are taking place and what not and it it just painted a picture of the kind of leader
that he is so going back to the beuniformed le hoffman's men offered a different perspective meaning as though just like ellie sicked her stomach bobabu by there a observation his
alleged bouts of stomach cramps confining him safely to bed coincided all too consistently with company actions that might involve either unpleasantness or danger he became common
for the men to predict upon hearing the night before a pending action that the company chief would be bedridden in the morning hoffman's behavior rankled as men at even more
because of two aggravating factors first he'd always been strict and unapproachable a typical base officer who liked his white callentes wares assinines uniform and demanded
considerable deference so that levinathan you hear about the guy this is supinas picture of just such a horrible human being he loves wearing his rank he loves being the guy of
base officer now this there's a a term for that they have that think we made up in the not webthter warm fighting soldiers and marines it's a fait babyface you get something
callerid operating base overseas and adorning bases connexion to pretty nice there there relatively secure and so the fait right is the leader that just wants to stay on the fob
and one to go out so this guy but of course the faisais running around you know wanting to be respected to eingepackt imani deference of the skies of fair the other thing is and
this is very typical of this kind of wretched human back to look second hoffman tried to compensate for his immobility by intensified the supervision of his subordinate so is not
around basine more a jerk and imposed himself more on to the un to the men now there continuing with another another ghetto the had to be cleared back to the book by october the
order was for real placards announced that all jews i did not go to the ghettos would be shot the shooting order was made part of regular company instructions to the men and given
repeatedly especially before they were sent on patrol no one could be left in any doubt that not a single jew was to remain alive in the battalion security zone in official jargon
the batanga made of forest patrols for suspects as the surviving jews were to be tracked down and shot like animals however the men of reserved police battalion one old one of
honeiar dub this phase of the final solution the jew hunt the jew hunt took many forms most spectacular were to battalion sweep an here's a some george left ler of third company
talking about that what those sweets were like back to the book we were told that there were many jews hiding in the forest we therefore searched through the woods in a skirmish
line but we could find nothing because the jews were obviously well hidden we combed the woods a second time only then could we discover individual chimney pipe sticking out of
the earth we discovered that jews at hidden themselves in underground bunkers here they were hauled out with some resistance and only one bunker some of the comrades climbed down
into the bunker and hauled the jews out the jews within shot on the spot the jews had to lie face down on the ground and were killed by a neck shot who was in the first glani
don't remember i think it was simply a case where the men standing near by were ordered to shoot them some fifty jews were shot including men and women of all ages because entire
families of hidden himselves there for suiting sir place quite publicly no cordon was formed at all for number of poles from a parlor standing directly by the shooting side they
were then ordered presumedly by hoffman to bury the jews who had been shot in a half finished bunker so again he got some of the jews had been consolidated in these ghettos and
now there any one a note judahite garrotero hunting them here's another version of an cases where the farm yard and the jewish lodgings could be reached quickly i drove in the
farm yard at high speed in the police sprang out in immediately rush to the jewish lodgings then all the deuce present at the time were driven out and shot in the farm yard near a
haystack potato pit or done heap the victims were almost always naked and were shot in neckarwein on the ground now even as this was taking place there still people that are
trying to avoid the shooting back to the book the tactic of keeping one's distance was invoked by heinrick fort topling how he avoided shooting and all that one occasion one
always had a certain freedom of movement of a few meters and from experience i noticed very quickly that the pecooler almost always chose the people standing next to him i thus
always attempted to take position as far as possible from the centre of events others likewise sought to avoid shooting by staying in the background pothesis that are not not to
trying to do it her best not to participate again they do anything to stop it no but this this is a great kind of a wrap on the on the jeunant this was like back to the book the
dean was not a brief episode it was a tenacious remorseless on going campaign in which the hunters tracked down and killed their prey in direct and personal confrontation was not
a passing face but an existential condition of constant readiness and intention to kill every last jew who could be found now are good cover this last massacre that took place and
jews had been sent from a too to a prison camp to be executed and in the rounded up at this place called lili and they were sent to be executed and the police battalion is now
acting as kindegarden and accessories to this to to make sure that the executions these mass executions take place correctly going back to the book as the dews passed between the
chain of reserve policeman into the camp music blared from two loud speaker trucks the spite the attempt to drown out o the noise the sound of steady gunfire could be heard from
the camp the jews were taken to the last row of barracks where they undressed arms raised hands clasped behind their necks totally naked they were led in groups from the barracks
through a hole cut in the fence to the trenches that had been dug behind the camp this root was guarded by men from the reserve police battalion one o one stationed only ten
meters from the graves heinrick bullcott of first company witnessed the killing procedure quote for my position i could now observe how the jews were driven naked from the
barracks by other members of orbital the shooters of the execution commandos who sat on the edge of the graves directly in front omi were members of the stand the sides like the
asses in tall intelligence group the end some distance be behind each shooter stood several other esteban who constantly capped the magazines of the submachine gun filled and
handed them to each shooter a number of shooters were assigned to each grave to the conowonga provide details about the number of graves that is possible that there were many such
graves where shooting took place simultaneously i definitely remember that the naked jews were driven directly into the graves and forced to lie down quite precisely on top of
those who had been shot before them the shooter than fired off a burst of these prone victims how long the action lasted i can no longer say with certainty presumably a lasted the
entire day because i remember that i was relieved once from my post i could give no details about the number of victims but there were awful lot of them it it's it's almost
incomprehensible to imagine that year one hesus getting forced your naked lay down gointo the pit lay down on top of those other people that were just shot so you can be shot too
another witness martin detmold cloth because i was a group leader in canovae more freely i went once directly to the execution sides how the newly arriving jus had to lie down on
those already shot they were then likewise shah with burst from submachine guns the edman took care that the jews were shot in such a way that there were inclined in the piles of
corpses and ebling the new comers to lie down on the corpses piled as much as three meters high the whole business was the most gruesome i ever seen in my life because i was
frequently able to see that after a burst of a burst had been fired the jews were only wounded in those still living were more or less buried alive beneath the corpses of those
shot later without the wounded being given so called the mercy shots i remember that from out of the pile of corpses the ass men were cursed by the wounded and now was sort of a
flannel participation of one a one battalion and here we get to there how it kind of rapp at the conclusion of the earnest master curs the district of lublin was for all practical
verses juden free for of jeserus participation of reserve batalion reserved poisonin one o one in the final solution came to an end with a conservative estimate of six thousand
five hundred jusht during the earlier actions like those that you safonova and one thousand shot during the jew hominem estimate of three thousand thirty thousand five hundred
jews shot at maginn ponies the battalion had participated in the direct shooting death of at least thirty eight thousand jews with the death camp deportation of at least three
thousand jews from my direct in early may nineteen forty three the number of jews they had placed on trains to dabraca had risen to forty five thousand for battalion of less than
five hundred men the old tamate body count was at least eighty three thousand jewson believable and here he asked the question back to the book wide did most men and reserved
police potion one o one become killer's willy a minority of perhaps ten per cent in certainly no more than twenty per cent did not a number of explanations have been invoked in
the past to explain such behaviour war time brutalization racism segmentation and routinist of the task special selection of the perpetrators careerism obedience to orders
deference to effort ideological in coin doctrin ation and conformity these factors are pickle in varying degrees but none without qualification the return of now figure out why
these people did what they did and those that bless of all the kind of excuses or the reasons i should say of why these men behave this way doraline but about over all kind of war
crimes here back to the book many the most notorious war time atrocities the japanese rampage through manila the american slaughter of prisoners and mutilation of corpses on many
a pacific islands and the massacre of me i involved a kind of battle field frenzy soldiers who inderior a nerve to violence nomothetai of human life in better over their own
casualties and frustrated by the tenacity of an insidious and seemingly inhuman enemy sometimes exploded and at other times grimly resolved to have their revenge at first
opportunity so that's one type it for me what's that called when you like non premeditated murder the right like just you know that guy comes home and his wife's with some other
guy and bomb he goes crinkett feel friends with at one kind now we talk about this premeditated back to the book other kinds of atrocity lacking the immediacy of the battle field
frenzy and fully expressing official government policy decidedly worse standard operating procedure fire bombing of german japanese cities the enslavement of a murderous moultrie
of foreign laborers in german camps and factories or along the seam berma railroad the reprisal shooting of a hundred civilians for every german soldier killed by partisan attack
in unicolor else were in eastern europe these were not the spontaneous explosions or cruel of range of bodlian but the acadica executed policies of government both kinds of
atrocities occur in the brutalizing context of war but the men who carry out a trusty by policy or in a different state of mind they act not all of frenzy bitterness and
frustration but with calculation clearly the man of reserved teaspoon on a one in him implementing the systematic notiony of exterminating european jury along in the second
category except for a few of the oldest men who were veterans of world war one and a few nto who had been transferred from poland to poland from asia the men of the italian had
not seen battle or encountered a deadly enemy most of them had not fire a shot in anger or even been fired upon much less lost comrades in fighting at their side thus war time
brutalization through prior combat was not immediate experience directly influencing the policeman behavior at osipovna the killing began however the men became increasingly
brutalized as in combat mahor of initial a of the initial encounter eventually became routine and the killing became premisses ly easier in essense itises boostin was not the
cause but the effect of the man's behaviour to his condo saying love like what you said the gathering enemy the had was their body than not degrevement their body that got killed
next to him but on up by an ed an now they're goin to take it out on on this group that they capture now like that back to the book as john dower has observed the dehumanization
of the other contribute immeasurably to the psychological distancing that facilitated killing distancing not frenzy and bodleian is one of the keys to the behaviour of the reserve
pospolite batalion one o one war and negative racial stereotyping were two mutually reinforcing factors in this distance and so in order to these people you got to disinter him
you can't you can't see them as human you can't see them as people many scholars of the hall acoss especially rothelburg have emphasized the bureaucratic and administrative
aspects of the destruction process this is very interesting this approach emphasized in the degree to which modern bureaucratic life fosters a functional and physical distancing
in the same way that war and negative racial stereotype promote a psychological distance in between perpetrator and victim so you you formed this purigotos machine that ulyie
piece of it you're all your donisthorpe argentu him an transonian aroud is rounding em up all your donigan mister getting pushed down to the into the grave as though you yea the
big bear crawfishing you're not lord just a little piece of it back to the book indeed many the perpetrators be hall cost wore so called desk murderers whose roll in the masticem
was greatly facilitated by the burgravine ure of their participation their drops frequently consisted of tieses the overall killing process and they perform them in rotten manner
never seeing the victims at their actions affected segmented routines and depersonalised the job of the buregard or specialist whether involved confiscating properties scheduling
trains drafting legislation sending telegrams or compiling less lists could be performed without confronting them reality of mass murder such a luxury of course was not enjoyed by
the men of reserved police pedion a one who were quite literally saturating the blood of victims shot a point blank range no one confronted the reality of mass murder more
directly to the men in the woods of hosea segmentation and routinist the de personalizing aspects of the burburata of the burchase killing cannot explain the batalions initial
behavior there so ganesa look reticence eternising birocrats thing but that's not what happened to you with these guys the facilitating psychological effect of a division of
labour for the killing process was not totally negligible however so then he talks about the fact that they did make the ejestein and take the killing out of their hands somewhat
and that did make it easier for them now he talks about you one of the things he mentioned early on a why this happen he talks about the special selection of the right people well
that doesn't really hold true either because here we got back the book the case for special selection of officers is even more difficult to make by asses standards major trap with
a patriotic german but traditionally and overly sentimental what in not notoge many with scornfully considered both weak and reactionary so you can't say it was the select of
people and we already talked on all the different types of noma people that were doing this that they didn't they didn't pull some truck driver in hamburg outsaid this at thirty
eight years old and say this gossander fect on the tineton do that back to look reserved please the talion was not sent to lullington murder jews because it was composed of men
specifically selected or deem particularly situee for the task all the contrary that etonian was the dregs of the man power pool valbona state of war it was implored to kill jus
because it was the only kind of unit available for such behind the line duties many studies of notices suggested the different kind of selection namely self selection to the party
and the asses by unusually violent prone people shortly after the war feodor adorno and many others and others develop a notion that of theirs the a an author authoritarian
personality they started looking at the the there certain people that have that derosne to having this type of personality they made of something called the assche which is is
like your propensity to have a a fortran personality here some of the ingredients there back to back rigid inherent to conventional values submissiveness to authority the two
authority figures aggressiveness toward out groups opposition to introspection reflection in creativity a tendency to stupor stition in stereotyping preoccupation with power and
toughness destructiveness and cynicism so these are the kind of things that their saying that these types of personalities would be come not because tattlety of personality they
have there is another a conic contigiate this as simple as possible again the segment bowman has some up the upreach as follows not see as it was cruel because notes were cruel
and the notes were cruel because cruel people tend to become not again these are fears but i don't think you can apply that to a truck driver from hamburg hum that got rotha got
drafted biesse select a drafted you have told occasioned to be in the in the army here ye torrentes petit's on like notes rily you know him a person mean a truck driver is like a
minutis this exclusion ary occupation it's more like just cause there are tracteer it just doesn't mean anything it's lieutenant octoroon anything what idianale totals people from
hamburg anything that they talked about but none of those it not like we got a bunch of guys that work ahlwardt a slaughter house ye ye you quit were narrowed these people from
logrono we are come hunters we didn't know hadn't recruit um football players cause they're aggressive note raitas just random any job and they showed up there so we basically
where i'm getting out of this is you saying like no it's like can't really say it that either right because it's a await er yes sales person but at the same time the guy who is a
waiter could have these other qualities you know like how you are your thankyou take five hundred people from hamburg between the ages of thirty five and forty years not an a find
that dick all these guys had those kind of yet dashes qualities boutiteron yeamans some people become this is eric or sorarans except the notion of some people become perpetrators
as a result of their personality they are self selected and essays that under particular circumstances most people have a capacity for extreme violence and destruction of human
life a oninterestin one under certain circumstances everyone has presentermint i'm sure we there's people that would argue that noldin directions but you know you take a a natalie
woman that's never been anapest fight before and you have somebody attacks her child that's going to kill or harm a child and the yenesei propensity for violence in from a lot of
em yeme even avertat ninety nine per cent per almona ninety nine per cent a golodrina e per cent oyer if it's a middleaged woman who has some one that's about to severely hurt or
kill their child and their way to stop it is with a pistol right my assessment is we're going to ninety nine per cent novitates getting killed ye like with with um but fifi effort
poured like the violent part of it you know i like em you know one i'm not saying on a movies surely but you know that old thing a little it say imagine that scenario like that
where the ladies got a hat you know shoot this guy because guesting the kitoti it won't be like old lammed the bare minimum force you know there to eliminate the threat she's
probably going to be kind of shoes overward killing nectarinia yeh yeh because that's kind of the violent coming out of someone i sonething to do because i'm duranowski away from
me kind o thing that's not violence ere so it that's really the question when you consider melinite girl you know i ohano he trianon think she's going to do extravased can kill
him go and go graver kittenlike sure kid say where i don't see this extra level you know desecration of the body or anything like that one i go to so make my kid safe yes i you
sayne the propensity for violence in that case is just the mere act of killing the guy jack will ye that's that's that's it ye but ye hollicott of a movie for whatever he is
castaliae but tell him you in general but you know the girl she's like scared it's all done out of fear you know and i've sure it's almost like the violence is just happened
sentinel perpensity for violent necessarily but it's just the mahabarata a few set up an experiment yes were you took a middle aged gutulian yet and i had children yet i only put
them in a scenario where you know i was either of a either that kid dies or they kill the perpetrator right on now not like a hay an my bile debate amount of it no the that the
axes in the air it's gonna be swung down on the kid right right you have to press this button to go to kill that guy where my lines the corfiotes rejoice yet i think it professes
gonna be ninety nine and i aneantir ur so this dingits into um some of these real famous experiments can a sociological experiments at the one of them is this embargos stampin
experiment narihito at ivery one heard of that where may basically take people to videamus and just randomly an actually did know this cause i never did any deep research on the
study but they they kind of do a priesteen to make sure that there's no extreme personalities everyone evasero as i i mean wouldn't have ever you could you could frame the word
normal the people that participating experimentors signal people that i have an extreme personalities kind of semi normal people they put him in that prison experiment and sure
enough some people were made guards some people were made prisoners and they had to get him to do certain things and there a certain number of eden take long for the guards if he
atooi days some the guards turned sadistic evil right ah and he regato the most dramatic and distressing to us was the observation of the ease with which sadistic behaviour could
be elicited in individuals who were not sadistic types the prison situation alone imbart concluded was a sufficient condition to produce adherent anti social behavior from the
guards from the guards that prisca that another factor pointed out a a that only two i e son twenty per cent emerged as good guards who did not punish prisoners even as they
aneesah favor from suppose numbers are pretty in line with this really small percentage of people that just there just good people right sol ten twenty per cent above actual good
people has a asiaman race not real good i entreat guard all right ah another thing pronouncer back to lackoon the perpetrators of course borders have traditionally been most
frequently sighted explanation for their own behavior sereer orders orders orders were orders and no one in such a political climate could be expected disobey them they insisted
this is a visiteuses the police to potalon sallower in order to stuff eristales we are that all time disobedience surely meant the concentration camp if not immediate execution
possibly for their families as well so there salikalla in up the contract gave us selves as the tape now the points dissout tact to look the theories eight general problem with
this explanation however quite simply in the past forty five years no defense attorney or defend it in any of the hundreds of post or trials has been able to document a single
case in which refusal to obey an order to kill on arms civilians resulted in the allegedly inevitable dire punishment so there's no precedent for that that i i i don't think that
these guys out there in the battalion or sitting there thinking about this one of like legal perspective raynecles no president for you a punishment being carried out on people
had been unread think that's a stretch yet yoganidra willy would when you talking about like maybe someone contemplating unlading these guys that were saying i couldn't refuse the
orders because our giunse right any sea saying that there's no precedence right that at you actually will get the severe punishment housatonia you wenteline that that's a ah
that's oppression you just think oi don't want to give him trouble yet you not think ye to about the the time you remember the guy that you heard of getting killed her or youthing
on the nine of you think about antidote more sereno thinking about the fact as you never heard of that before ye eveleth all right now so we're talkin about obedience of orders
and arregebah to bokoin to orders out of fear of dire punishment is not a valid explanation what about obedience to authority in the more general sense used by stanley mill grim
deference simply as a product of socialization and evolution a deeply ingrained behaviour tendency to comply with the directives of those positioned higher archly be above them
even to the point of performing repugnant actions in violation of universally accepted moral norms so ever the mill grim experience no no these are desert kindlike the san propres
pretty famous and what he did was he said up these experiments were he had you couldn't see these actors were behind a wall but it they were getting as questions and the the if
they answer the question wrong they would get a little electric shock that was done by the person was being experimented on a so you know i would be they talagouga this guy a name
is echoes of their gonnas me question if he gets it wrong the itwassucha i can't see you but i can hear you so when i shall you and and every question that you get wrong i i have
to ask alatee level of shocks something worse and worse nornase idea reaction is more and more horrific as these things asiatica gate experimenters in analysing me aoteis no
rainwall sachalinosa so and you're actually going through a um series of complaints all all i'll read this year there was an escalating series of fake lectric shocks upon a vice
actor of victim who responded with carefully programme voice feed back and aslan series of complaints cries of pain called for help and finally fateful silence in the standard
voice feedback experiment two thirds of milkroom subjects were obedient to the point of inflicting extreme pain several variations on the experiment produceing ly different
results if the actor slash of victim was shielded so that the subject could care and see no response obedience must was much greater sofi could hear you not just now that i was
shocking the holloway i was good with it if the subject had both visual and voice feet back complaints fell to the compliance to the extreme fell before ty per cent so down from
sixty six per cent to forty percent if the subject i had had to touch the actor slash victim physically by forcing his hand on to an electric plate to deliver the shocks obedience
thirty per cent now this is this is fascinating if a non afford efige gave orders obedience was nil so if some guy was a hay you know am bill i'm running the experiment omasha
this guy if the guy was no authority then they got no they got no none no sashes you and that's from a leadership er spector that's very important to a ostension understand how
much influence you have when you're a leadership is and i run in the salient i ran into an thiselton when a guy doesn't recognize the the power of his rank and he does recognize
that just by wearing his rank when he says something people kind of like gun adiit there gonahey want to do it so then a going back to the book here if the naive subject performed
a subsidiary or accessory task but did not personally inflict the electric shocks obedience was nearly total sages down to the divisional labor again if it was just me said okay
asked him a question after shocking in and some other guy was shaking you i go straight to a hundred straight you under if tinoco trast it the subject or peer was part of an if
the subject was part of an actor pure group that stage carefully planned refusal to continue to follow the erection of the authority figure the vast majority of subjects namely
present joined the peer group and desist and desisted wealth so that's the tipping point then is there was other sofias it was three of us that were conducting the experiment on
you and the other an eye was the the the native guide that does not going on a mewondereth doing the experiment on and there's two guys to actors that are in the room with me and
there going to be a canine shouldn't be doing this and etherialises really hurt i mossoos ninety percent a time i go yagyu guys are right the psychology grouping if the subject
was given complete discretion as to the level of lectrisititeness all but a few saisons stantly delivered a minimal shock when not under direct evenin of the scientist menuet
cheated by diving lower shocks and prescribed even though they were unable to confront authority and abandoned the experiments that it give lowerest they would walk away from it
they wouldn't dessay on knocking a this yetmore really notes were all to sundaman you know wayne i and we can kennedy thither in that way too wellness it's again this is on this
is about leadership it's amazing hand influential to our how influencive people are there's so ready for influence so ready to be told like a and we shouldn't be doing this yes at
the same thing we saw it though with the poncas on the mealie masker all i took was waleffe safe sopkin and everyone oleaster one yelling went they just need to get nude in that
direction and by the way they had already been nude in the other directors kill everyone they now ye and that's what i mean by a lay out of me on the edge of like sandy not herman
on the fence yelled it out a year ship as someone pouraneeke around with people all over the world and and border position you're in regardless if it's in a working vironment if
it's a social environment if it's rederring your peer group i have so much power over people just by being a leader and by using that influence to be more people one way or the
other a cave yea it is crazy going back to the book to what were the vast majority of traps men responding to when they did not step out was it the authority as represented by
either trap or his superior where they responding to trap not prairy as an authority figure but as an individual a popular and beloved officer who they misund who they would not
leave in the lurch what about other factors milgrave notes that far that people far more frequently invoke of forty then conformity to explain their behaviour for only the former
seems to absolve them of personal responsibility and he quoter subject denied conformity and imbrace obedience as the explanation of their actions so people don't like to say
every one else was doing it right petherton like the say that because that deathbeds inmenso boike eldership of things i ever look call the streoneshalh on't like to take orders
to the exanimate they want to say they soon as i blame some of my possessor to do big things in a tremor he leading up the chinaman at so easy to blame your boss you know because
how can i control my boss i'll follow in our house for a spotty do it that's why i fell to mission i'll tell do i eating give me right dear that's we hear this all the time and
and and no grim says it too no one wants to say hey you know what i decided i was is going to do whatever ense was doing ye that's my decision instantly put that decision on the
other guy on the boss man you know another exploration here back to the book direct proximity to the horror of killing significantly increased the number of men who would no
longer comply on the other hand with the division of labor and removal of the killing process to the death camps the men felt scarcely any responsibility all for a for their
actions same thing niblung out no i got someone else's pressing the button over the the shock and you i'm good with it yes he groan now one thing of millroom about is his the
cunnin doc ination or what kind of what kind of idea logical justification did he give to his people that i treally just preexisting in ilgrim experiences or dis condom l people
so what about with the notes and what kind of indoctrination they get brain washed to bright we talked about this a little bit already but back to the book all order police
battalions were to be strengthened in character and ideology one topic for the first week in without like a school in education ideological education one topic for the first week
was race as the basis of our wild view followed by a the second week maintaining the purity of blood so there you go these guys are being indoctrinated but the reason that that
argument doesn't really hold much way is because of the the way those people were back to book whatever the merit of such an argument clearly does not hold for the predominantly
menemen of reserve believes police battalion one of one they were they were educated in spent their formative years in the pre nineteen thirty three period many came from a social
may look that was relatively unreceptive the national socialism they were being knew perfectly well the more norms of german society before the notes so you can't really blame it
on them being brainwashed so here's how here's how a browning wraps up his book on monaco it out the behavior of any human being is of course a very complex for amnon and the
historian who attempts to explain it is indulging in a certain arrogance when nearly five hundred men are involved to undertake any general explanation of their collective
behaviour is even more hazardous what then is one to conclude most of all one comes away from the story of reserve police potion one a one with a great unease the story of
ordinary men is not the story of all men the reserve policeman faced choices and most of them committed terrible deeds but those who killed cannot be absolved by the notion that
any one in the same situation would have done as they did for even among them some refused to kill and others stopped killing human responsibility is ultimately an individual
matter at the same time however the collective behavior of reserve police potalon one a one as deeply disturbing implications there many societies afflicted by traditions of races
and count in the siege mentality of war or fret of warm everywhere society conditions people to respect and defer to authority and indeed could scarcely function otherwise
everywhere people seek career advancement in every modern society the complexity of life and the resulting burattino and specialization attenuate the sense of personal
responsibility of those implementing official policy weinert every social collective that pure group exert tremendous pressures on behavior and sets moral norms if the men of
reserve police battalion one o one could become killers under such circumstances what group of men cannot in there you have it rithinetic important warnings that are laid out
there i mean obviously the first one we we have to be aware of traditions of racism and threat of war and i think has a pretty obvious in stand out pretty clearly i think be of
one or a little bit trickier right i think we got to watch out for the fact that we are conditioned to respect and defer to authority i say that no man and i actually you know i
when i grew up i a rebellious kid sure and i listen to rebellious and i was rebellia about that and i think that was very beneficial for me in my military career and explained
that home time that i asked questions if i don't believe it's that i'm an ask watson and by the way i don't i want the people that work for me or with me i want them to ask
assonant want to be surrounded by yes man and i'm not going to be esmond never was the inelegant then not that i never was because sometimes you got to be a yes man in order to
get the inner sir or where you can actually have influence so have i play that day before it yes i have yeaston like good plant gaboreau's copenh i trust ocoee grees with me all
the time a boss near going off the rails over here he stopped oh i'm going to listen jocosities to me so have i played that game before yes of course i have so we need to be
careful that we don't submit always to authority the hard thing to raise your kids with to right he you want you to erasement your forty but you don't want them to ye i have to
always remind myself when they rebel against me after say myself good because i want them to grass i watch i do want him to question authority i don't want them just to be right
eenies people out the frisbee out when you say what we knoll go work with a company and i'll be saying like no i want your people you want your people to ask questions if you want
to just order them around and they're just going to obey you first of all i'm not going to help you there because that's not a system that's functional it'll be functional for a
week it'll be functional for two weeks but eventually will have people that don't understand why they're doing what they're doing they don't put their effort to into can't make
desinente own and you endure bad team ye we don't want that kind of a thorarin leadership anywhere answered le not not any weregin gister for five minutes does it work for week at
it does it it is sometimes needed because people got a we gotta get something done right now ye but ye better fall out up with some noteworthy and readership with with explaining
a building relationships of people yet that explanation they may is the talk of all the time or explaining why lamiae me to do this it's for because of this is exclaimed it
anassein from a perspective of bena parent how effective bates you just say this is the way you goin to have to noah old is there not erenow yet work already affecting for the
four year old yet and even if even he mornings you can always rationalize it a four year old sonontowane that coyotes no why about it it was strangely with that cold um u we have
situation it now where am her cousin is then and you know it put in a nutshell his diet isn't quite it hum as she's not on a peasant neroine program like home my daughter is
ostentorum but you don't billy eat jump food or whatever right and it's kind of part of the experience i understand where you know hey cousins information it's a little bit more
fenton and is yet so after a while i said realizing the can collinson to my house to get a fresh harnish be like that so after while i came to to you know we tithes to many treats
going on these days you know agleam had a drop a hammer a little bit and so when i told my daughter alice no you don't we're not into this anyplace she didn't she wasn't happy
with it but she totally understood four years old where and i did it in a way where it wasn't lies your reference where the warrior could earphones on that shirt her coptodera
well they nataniel wandering money but am ill is it what i didn't scare her you know i did i wasn't like old then you're gonna be a loser or something on a something or i i could
say to each other oh you might as well just go sanfaute for type to die me i'm not a tag your radiator ye be and exactly right they went there but he was just a kid you know like
where i older kids do it to my younger daughter ye yes you're going to get time you diabetes he frees all it grew she ties goin to get to day yet in manunderthebed were
ineffective to my that's your thing sure now but did it with a point being in idiotic as far i mean yet you don't like how you say too you have to be a deck about it at a scolding
in a not nothing like that yet it's a connemara understandably contrary to that it's the other end of the spectrum ye ye yes an i'm toiling ocas i care about you so much you that
i want you to be healthy ye that's the only reason i'm talking to you yeeked he'd like your parents say that say those exact words i i do this cause i care about you mean while
they're yelling at you he ses mangeaille do it too bosses do that too tonsorialist the first thing they do is i want to jump down some one throat and then every one's reactions
the same to that yenowines it no one likes it whereas if you take a different approach and you say hey iho te do we talking you right now with not colamatta you i it's because i'm
actually i see nothing but potential with you yet as a ice and when i when i see that you're not making the like you not making many videos aino's not cause i'm i'm thinking
myself oh i want more videos threason of thinges cause i why she see how much potential you have and then you could really do some powerful soft naps and huge influence day but
right tackle so what is opposed to you better make more videos yet else amanda my kid do it will you lazy broke exactly then you be like fine as can do then will be is my alsatias
that not all is not the game a plain here yet i ask you a lot of potential in you and i think you could make more videotape you got to watch el four o being afore you got a
question of tory all the time and you've the bental about people seeking career advancement as another big one and as another big when i say now do right there's such a much
better way to get career advancement and that is by doing a good job that's ow you get careered avancement by inciting credence seek dugouts to make a difference i seek to do what
is right the career is going to come in one form of the other now might you get past up might some other guide that to to disown horn and took the credit might that happen yes it
might happen you might you might git delayed but that is going to continue to build that reputation and in the abases missed it on the first round of the vanmen so he got it maybe
heaving at the second round by the third round it looking him to this cause serving loser we need him off the team and by the way we realized that the guy had been behind work as
echo over there so were i promote him now now you're going to win i've got a really solid reputation you'll pop so you can't but the the the the the idea of seeking cured vance
ment you see in a military i'll dine there people that are des trying to get advanced trying to get advanced to no one cares whose back there stepping on and i'm tonaca some of
those guys get advanced in my community the vanced up through the ranks they were stepping on people's backs to get there the reputation eventually was so bad that i didn't get
them propelleth y didn't propel us far as they wanted to and looked great guise the guise that we were truly just try to do the best for the community those guys got tooted a
would make it you know the furthest because their reputation were so solid yander one knew that these guarding the right things to eiresione could get promoted but they ended up
getting from out it ye yet promotion more flakelike tulit weatherend aralet just like to get if your resting in it your belt i nature try to prove it that's not going to work out
well for you getting mad will not a game in eroded you like it you himself some other white belt could you you know showing all all time but eventually you show off all time yea
and the coast goes a man won't want you help everyone or to coaches hey i see you i see your tapping a lot of people out that of the same level as you all a time but you not on
any one as hardy if you want to put him in the adamant and long of you don't want you might see sometimes if you know how like me when you come up through the judeans ye too ye
just the you just find a certain mood move or half a love and you just those move gathereth a yeah i think we all kind of iron one were another oh and so this is what if your
pursuing the belt is what you do instructors around you only do your good monongahela you want to look at that's all you do you know and you did and when you say it'll show itself
later you know so what you've what can happen it is you get your blue bell you get your purple welt cassiou show off to your instructors or were her and in the journals too i
lilasure from conomise i sat moaning oh but while it would all happen is later on you can okay so this might be it might have been long time for you but maybe not so okay so i'm
taken i'm training with a inoor went to class jeff lovers teaching cotton and yellow like a list do this and he does some crazy kind advance monyot it takes like if you're in
advance for an you know how to know how to move your not one you get too cunnin an in advance what you can do the move even though you've never done the move for you are that kind
of man so a kind of his one where you got to like gotten the gaelags lift up and into hohoo or whatever like listhus so i don't do that move to at all and i've been trained and
been in this game from time so i go and i do it and not how an to say all was surprised but like i could do it i could totally in but jeff's a gallinie dan cause bigger i too you
know and that made me think of this kind of thing were some guys they can be a black belt and they say he a show this move quick an i be a baconian do it because they have avoided
that and others say that it isn't very case sir all the time i'm just saying not like an example of all you can avoid getting better and only show off like ex wise to get you to
that kind of next specific level yer i don't libel whatever is similar saying maybe but i realized her you were talked about this what i'll do m is both with genait jeff if i do
if i'm doing something that they showed me i'll like all like call out like a little kid of me like oyerheated like all of you are you like that all mathatai do with dean with my
kids when my kids are training in all i'll say eighteen ten check opalo at atlanta in revery like all happy yeh yeh yeh is happy that the eye learning or that their learning that
estimates pretty cool when you can pull off what you just want right eyes on ina's cool for a teacher i was on pologised does some one shot big ten so they get the differences if
in fact it is even that difference um is why did you do that in a to get your kid for moted oven to get me promoted because i can't get you have any promoter now ye so i guess i
guess it sort of like maybe maybe maybe the be negative aspect would be like a mocking first of credit and of it a rule a little guy moved or lead their family whatever no i don't
think it's setting it's pretty bad but had lanisterre libitum he so watch out for that watch out for their career advancement don't let that be the folk your life an it's god's
knockin a make you his mocking get you what you want now under the instance is where you play the game so that you can move off so that you can have one strong yes i did that i
look i beg a wound from unless the officer that's the old timid in a i'm going to play the game i'm going to get more into on to be in charge more stuff so how many i do that i'm
in cummisky all this rings on a coming off cried that you i played that game i was about my career but i was about my career secondly know fifteen guys in the septenary cause i
was happy when i had a good leader in my seal to um that the other one he talks about here is this berkow as the son and specialization attenuating the sense of personal
responsibility this is another thing that we have to be careful of just because your part of a system doesn't mean you should just you know blame the system with something goes
wrong you don't for work in somewhere in something isn't going handy we do it as to what the system works say we can't change that and i never accepted that as an answer and i'll
tell you what the when you come up against that you can't the way you fight it we came up against as you build a relationship right so any you ever ever have of you turn to you
with some costume or service or something and your getting that sigmaringen help you eh and you go down to the sensating on bill i am jackman i called you liar i just i gotta get
to singers ole her as going on a gascon there and say you need to take care of this now he said hey bill what's going on a ham jocko yeah man i really like the piece gearman at
work good there was a couple of issues i had with them i'll try to get him resolve because you know my daughter's birthdays in two weeks and i need you don't that mean tehachipi
them a yeah yeah let's get the beer critic don't let them stay in their vague furcate system yeah weldon let that happen because then they'd been to be a critic machine you've
been then they are not they are not the ones that are finding you if the machine they can't control machination here is part of the chine you an it you with this concept
fundamentally as the same is this you know when you're in traffic you know and your trainer time of so he an you an get a lame but then you know from the age prospective or the
other cars perspective this cars trout me off with caraiscaki get in my art but you get your wherever your riding with all you gotta get them rolled down the window make eye
contact with a person in beelike hate just way at a more something look i'm a person you're a person here we're not staying in mind what outstanding like we're just wore how going
the same sort ever stealthiness give him that that kind of a personal element pondlet your right in no wave you in and you wait here backerds that and before you my two seconds
before that your pissed yerlie discuss portageton front of me and the arena it about that man at sallie you stand on a or get there yet he's got to be somewhere to you hearing
your name the action in the rush he but you have put it on your deal thinking step out of the machine man the ininutes step out and i'm a person your periastron relationships on
the down the china command throughout your opened don't let the don't let the finance department your right yet the department the olefiant apart on his oldest down on the thing
you in the name who did them or walk on the time what in the market in part we won't give us any more an okay go let's find out who that is and that not a bear gradients not a
marketing department of that ill she no tell those in there under deane won't build knows what you're trying to do i know that you are trying to make something happen you make
that connection and i got to go those going to take care of you all anores nefri out the all their saying finely here is this this idea of this peer group this social come let de
pure pressure we all know exist in that fine but make it good by pure pressure is powerful its powerful in the good thing is you get control it in in both directions you need to
recognising when it happened you in a negative way and then you need to use it in a positive way to help people to good things you peer pressure per pressures leggit for making
people do podovanino what you don't want to do is used per pressure may people to negative things and there's a lot of that in the world then i'll tell you why there's a certain
part of people that don't like to see other people succeed yet so they go man just come out tonight deed but let got to work in more to come out yet we can get a couple of drinks
here's another one with two shot you always on that die et de coude etait leonato and they want to senate is a there is a certain part of people that want us he everyone fail yet
any you you've got to pay tattat yourself yes you had patetia in yer own self he gettent you won't realize it yet but you actually i've seen people give all the people bad advice
because the hall us her jealous assertors i think pilot for a mind was going for a praeripere in the military and he came to me said manuscritos program but a couple deserted me i
shouldn't and i said brow that is the dumb esting i've ever heard they are jealous they are jealous they don't want you to this program because it's going to make you more
successful go to the program huh and he said okay and he did a jackape crestian to give pee pressure of goodness you had a vates and and the thing is i mean i guess you could look
at purprestures in a way is it leadership whether you're standing up to it or whether your spreading the positive purprestures leadership and that's what we're here to do men were
here to do were and when you use that and a pose in way you can prevent this kind of canossa distick horrible horrific ovens like this like we read about the day for mapping's
crazy that this that this occurred in and its crazy that it you know even even throughout the book i hand it it's just referring to the jews right this referring to the jews the
jews the jews lined up the jews lay down the jews gotten what god shapin the back of the neck the jews the jews the jews oh let's remember that every single one of those jews was
a name was a person it was bill was the oak we we do the same thing were putting them in the insorte of big chunk of machinery a that there just there part of the product of
what's happening over here and ye don't do it on either side ye or droaned don't let it happen a traffic don't let it happen alife don't do it grasiers about there really is and
leadership the thing about leadership is leadership is happening at all times we we the minute you are interacting with another person leadership is taking place your either being
led which is fine or you leading which is fine as long as you're going in the right direction but if you constantly think you're any angeleti yourself by the way of course you
leaving yourself your cause only leading yourself but the many you meet with someone else you do the eleviation apple you either leading that person or your being led and that's
okay if i had to be led as long as you being led in the redirection the if you start seen yourself being led in the wrong direction in you go with it your fault ye your fall de
can blame that person you went along with it your cold bob for your actions so again i know it's a brutal love buddleton to cover and i'm sure will be back at it again at some
point but let's not let's not forget that these that this happened and that if we're not careful i can happen again when you get little things like an way lower levels or in it
stuff halfnaked little rights break out you know of mormal just doing cars because that's kind of whatever one's doing it all to one guys i gave that we get a stop by a castor or
the pupating that's why people we you get work out body you know or or you you you join that like cross it in a big way is like really is a good group very in you can rosenthal a
curiou know like the cur you want you can't yet in a way you look forward to just linking up with the group and the group stocking about like you know doing good stuff in you were
and you're right and his matter factors are home new fanominon inde fitness world which is basically all stenson prose and they call it is greecized right hay with a crop exercise
a cloak that grew exercise classes chris her one word i will the people i want to have you acccomplice it a class to night i have kind of feel a lazy come out broye i'm going year
oh okay i don't want to be weak yea no your pressing me to be strong that's good yet to stir so you sat in a positive way ye yet you ever you ever been well you probably all yet
he probably half we can be honestly he and you know the kind where you like okay a analin up with whoever to go train or to go work out a whatever mandane the time comes you're
like dingannal feel like it i in the back of my mind i hope that they call in cancel i'll and then they call they don't cancel they call to come firm and you go you didn't want to
go you go at the end of the work that you like dan almost in i almost did it marotay good thing you know satcome on men not having to deal as sight don't tell you people ask me
about the lot you've got it recognized you got to start to member eyes that good feeling that comes after a good work out ye so that you don't have to force yourself through it in
enticin such a good way of petit the other memorize the feeling of rise the feeling of like animalized to feelings one is i remember is how good it feels when you're done and two
i remember is how bad it feels when you're weediness so that that's a horrible i hate that feeling i hate that feeling of like i didn't do it yes it makes me feel like jokun
tobias just on the road and it was like your tonkton i just feel like man i squeezing a couple of work out of night prewaricate just to get him down on you don't have a injust to
move the worst thing you can do is be sad in terry you that was moving during the day as we were in the water and the one not yet yes a little bit of a but you got a gondola to
memorise the feelings of there's nothing worse in a feeling of i slept in beweisen you that rioted i don't like the feeling of i slept in and now be on the bower girl ye a that go
in after all ye like you memorized that feeling he is in run from it speaking of memorized or unioner thing that everyone is memorized you saying at this point were you talk about
how i in sport the boasting actually amattagoa into an enable in at a different angle i'm gonna say speaking of pure pressure cause is really what it is the group you peer
pressure me you peer pressure on odessa we collectively for fresher each other and this is what we're doing were working out as a reason not to work out no teddy now days not i me
this day to day to the could be your restoration work out for it to recite yes here you should later even if you have an already anyway this is what we're doing more working out
jeff if we have wait to lose we know if we're over weight we do even if we reflective pounds over way think of like your ideal wait thinker that if you're not sad hundred n fifty
pastime venefer i rose some one that's a massive death and you think by where i was the master i wish i was as you know four hundred an fifty pounds because then you just mash it
re one yea but that might get in the way in other aspects of life like it if your forefit pounds that would mean what how tall like what's six eight no i i would want to be like
eight foot nine yellastone thing is going to be an issue for you or associates good bye to your current knowledge or your current scheme of a serviceable that i point good point
that's just one thing mattered potestate things so you just think you juiciest and all during it and is mameena classes though yet at ye so you'd have to fight on for your
aristocrat ever him sensualite i'll be be what i am actually you know what passevent undegraded you bill if you want to be that big that's your idea was you go with that i
sediment pound yet it wasn't geronte and that's really the point the point if you know your ideal wait you do not me at all i don't have an idea it for you maybe i do but it has
very mysonyay oreadocracy and am an be less mentally strong but for a bone else we all know how much we want a way or you don't whatever whatever so these what we're doing per
pressure we're going to do i pursued that were working out we are getting control of our ego temper and other various weaknesses also difficili tate that were taking croil if he
joins a sorry get that's all we're doing or problems on ultimately it is one be problem salting you know so let joint to sir cralo joins that sonya who to the next thing simses
creel from on it you want temperato the cruel oil save money financial discipline equal financial freedom on pokin a put that right in the holy equation got on it do ham flashed
up of temper and of an sportance in a row on this thing together kind the thing you know other stuff on on it i took some new mood to day interesting i i'm not necessarily in a
new mood i think i'm in the same mood but i don't think that's what it is i think it's more unjust you know balancing out your whole stuff dear i just to get because he was there
and that's the kind of thing that i won't take it you don't want to be baling of an i want them i want current moves gondomar or what if you seeing angry good an that i'm good to
go i am fairly certain it for brain the health you know an i think the new mood like mood part of it is more like a kind of a happenstance kind of cool think like you know anyway
maybe ixora ansthat i'm down for that to a bunch of self performance stuff you know so if you were like him getting after alan performance supplementation that's what we're doing
too were doing all this stuff as the group to drop our current leader isiki's a group about a leader until some one tells him to stop then were all stopping anyway also good with
sport and this is just a part yourself and support the group of release you know case of this book these books all these books we read these books surely disenage it and it's dull
but you know you want to get the book if you want to get the baines unreadiness than ten per cent of the box yes five per cent it's like a book report although i might have gone a
little bit crazy with sidney jerry last erhead leister of em just fall on the audio book to snare it and i'll stop seven hours later he ran half yes that's it so o him good
lessons though yet there are they're all belessen how many people see you know podcast three hours and twenty seven minutes and go come on joe on her yea and how it if people
machinate say come on agostino she do you housekeepers for a non you hours and twenty seven minutes come on that no my fault that the machine it you know i'd stayed a small little
cart now you'll see y'anyways if you want the books or one or whatever of our website dock potassium is a section a page if you will menuon the tops as book from bateson click on
that clicked through there take you to amazon purchased a book that's a good way support and you get the book boom um also yes you know to any other shopping on their hay field
freak that the good way to support in a salad way and that's what we're all doing straight up susan as real heavy peer pressure on her we have but it is a good pear pause at
goodness he is good well that is good because we're not you just do to souping yea gas doesn't cost anything exact the right bell and that's what we're doing palissot were doing
is subscriber enaros going to say continued talking it to you good will and philostrate to the pot casual well doing i'm subscribed to the boucassin a man you know yeah well
alister i'll goin to do it up subscribe to vision all ready also an you too subscripted allan that's a good un desertae all those ill levitator doing three videos a week now men
asked of a otaheite was istituto gatteville did for me tantalisation for cassidy and we want and then to exert through extremum is what i'm saying okay that's kenesaw should have
a law to exert up there to the ornate grow every week oh you don't so the end the benefit to those mighty don't know make your extra shorter why cause it to on a twelve minute
extroverting expert the externats the it ithaemenes back to a promise it's essentially an unwonted and and it them eyes yet the meat to polymerising is a man judges be like boom
so much bellissen to it in thirty seconds and be like i got to go to deal her a yes so okay so good pardon this with you as you and julie that you enjoy the art of the
conversation yes he anyone on her the art of conversation that just essalona may they have been hanging round with you to go because last week the way you ferou could in any out
ajat whole or one forty five minute as i whatever sanguine that is a joke of artificious so you keep you now how like okay i'm i'm leslie ning to your whole little segment and i
got to cut it and rang a bell where my cutter right here and then your little follow up comment is cool and it may be i say something which is like an whatever i can come myself
out easily but then your follow up to me is kind o cool the eye that's important to i should leave that part in in seldius turns into this thing the wiseacre farolet whatever
though a more talk or chicken macachina said wildfire leg i ah they're not a negotiator no actually they are but you know that's an exception sometimes they're twelve minutes he
meant the old minute he thing we could eat in reactant rest twere record just a pertinent part of you can't addidit without life and i don't know that that's a step back words
alain allies rationalite you know away that's a good way to support subscribed the you to call bun serable stuff on there in the event of the excerpts not being taught minutes in
them in the event of them being three minutes or so in sheram more shareable m in fact i saw what i roselike right after i posted it and then i think you was like ottobrata maybe
he shares it and then i watched it very hot ashar able it is i said a post to it share it and i want it you did it cadet added in it you posted it and then got saracin you so
washoeite ically what's insured to me directly actual tokay on wandering or in work that i ithacian yet so good how it cut the beginning and the end of that in a west the hoping
tarawa said cried pet too that's the point that's what we're doing also jonas a store called jolter jocko stored at come so what's on here is clothing items if you will now sir
out to it it can so here's the thing is what we're doing we're wearing cocopah is what we're donnisthorpe freshers that baiting you good be prussian luck ud she this shirt
cockle's wainwright now even though it has become a jackal point as shirt because we now manufacture victory of a man sadness thirt to stay old school the jocelini form the rule
if that shirt on jocasta of tom this short that i'm currently wearing jocasta up home in fact all the shirts are on junk store dot code is a guide the mister had this tea shirt on
yet in the millionaya first i was like in a ahmadabad then of how even goethe nunnery representing orsini that's all that's all we're doing representing big time and if you i'm
nothing by a shirt i never say i assure saying doctor come take it out if you like one or more of the items on their including but not limited to shirts get something with all so
rash guards and otis kind of i got replenish those i understand that but some rashers on there and the next hooter going to be sick and heavy alaskan style a minnesota style you
will thinking it on in tanty not oh not not as to a wise staring at a white sun go i will wed her both because look you can't exclude the come i know oh dainties it means the
people tamely when you think about it came i know come in emmeline so people pullin yeah i got a pretty good guesser at the there you go now plawsable those folks okay there cool
well we need to make a hairston and a and a north nor learner sure sale yet yet the two sides fectionate erybody one to represent or that's what we're all doing you know
representing um in a yes or masterson there like i said the ole cat what i was going to say is get cocaine mentioned to before jackassery now well technically he designed a
surveying levels of acceptance on my and here it's the choir some people called the dang shirt was the echo she there's some layers there you've my bile to figure technically is
more layers on the shot tanny other shirt relate most later sure a lot in a fact that i made it is a layer so i i say save i oh ah but what my valuation is it interesting you
actually impressive the design is impressive like the layers and stuff in these iron exclusively by jack o so now i'm a fashion is it correct artist fashioned his eye i who the
phone i need to tack the glee or meantime that one's on there right now right this very moment don't on her you want to check it out not shinto by i'm not saying that i'm saying
tician the shirts going to be popular with your head on it is better it is echoes had on with its leutter's a layer in a year you got a seat on a sayin is though is somebody that
won't somebody is that like does it wanted just be force coming like for instance a lot of serene have that have later tom you don't know exactly what like now the darkness right
no news with the have a has dotheboys tone that says jacobaean okay we know there's the there's a later every pretty at all so pretty fourth coming what it means if the desert
that i made for you with your head on it no of have any idea what that is it so people automatically as some good layers there just by wearing that ted dear it's not you know of
one even and you what this is i is that human head on your desk you saying external people yes he blew to natalie yet absolutely been a game thing in an get the whole thing or of
years wholly cut what of the lady i go you listen to a band and you just you have a shirt to dose say the bad name on it but got the album cover ye ye an able no heleno not people
that listen it no right if they listen in of anything with his shirt if they don't listen then argenteo yet listen you're gonna get cured so that he has a son a i'm not but yet is
going to induce tore a comes on that's what we're doing also what we're doing trade up he is in him in the moment of weakness that we may or may not have for most even more than
others but what we do as we turned psychological warfare if you know that it is what is psychologic or for is in olbiotatos the age and these tracks what they do as they give you
a spot with any weakness or weak moment you have to oaken up early every single day and that monday comes or whatever that i tangadala so or that my bed is extra come in on maybe
a sleep in you don't want to have slept in but you dottie at that moment that moment a weakness play one of the tracks we co and get up dreading you that particular trinket used
to work out once it different but it'll help you through i give you that spot just like when you and i said this before in miss makes perfect sense this will wear doing it when we
jump on to the bench and we take on lofty challenges on the bench press we're going to grab a guide a spot us not to say he's going to touch the bar nupte say any of that but we
we have a lofty challenge so he got the the spot to insure our success so to me if you're not doing anything if you're not pursuing anything than this isn't for you you just get a
get up in whatever at whatever time you get up and go to where you do whatever you do come home do you think which is cool that's not all we're doing though so i say while we do
our big things thinning our spot called psychological warfare i'm not insane use it in saint but if you need it you got it jinture your success is okay that's good thank you
preciate that one eats yes thankee foal so up you can get jackaway tea on him as on get some if you want some also origin man dot com if you're getting into giton if you indiget
already and you need a gee or a asgard i recommend you go to origin man dot com it so my brother p roberts up there in maine where they make everything which is awesome they weave
the fabric so it did it in broidered send it out geese rash guards short made in america and and yes we are getting in league with forgeman sorters a little bit of a perfect storm
kandarian got something that makes something in america something that i like in you necatitlan my neck of the woods so we're getting all the war path with origin made and were in
it after it so check them out then we tarry kid make a kid's life better get him or her this book so they can get better faster stronger and before you give it to them livic ready
yourself uncle jas sumpin for all of us letsatsi also tisiphone les freedom to you'll manuel i brought like a rough copy ever goatee as some name that they call us rob calathis we
my third book apurito understand the publishing like a ofaera words and stuff that use terms sure as argenin do this bob a bland i say of what it was that mean but this is the
book this is a temoigner so a couple of things does this have a flashy cover that's going to attract you know a people to buy it no edes's gotter all black cover flat that's where
it's got is it got on you know some interesting flatterer you to feel good about yourself now that turnout in their neither does it have these in cradle life has tagita h you had
a rise in fulfil or dreams the simple things that you can do now those aren't in their either m it's called a disponing freedom feel manual it's about discipline and if you follow
it you're going to find freedom pretty simple there you go if you are onoto there's the book it there always that look like hard to see against the black background cousin's black
yeaston see that cover it's not what the books for no no but if the cover does cayotes it's a present be honest that's at you you orecome out october seventeenth the
assumptionists you might want order it now so you get a copy or a first comes out otherwise people will have discipline before you and that's connotaucarius p of course you have
it by the way you have it that's good but to it for your team beesome your life easier if you want to do that we also have as alan front consulting me lay faint japonel dave berk
get your team a line so your leadership can crush your enemies and by the way don't try and be us through a speaker's agent if you know what that is if you know that is don't do
it don't look on mine and find or literary agent in time look don't do that we have a company it scaled that san front book the tecoma in foliation front dot com he mail that
that's how you get us to come and work with your company the master we just got done with one next on september fourteen ten fifteen in santiago it is going to sell out to fatal
it is going to sell out it is natural it is going to sell out because all three and first ones of sold out his one consented to register go to the moonship to tom if you are come
to it if you don't want to come stay at home that's fine too whatever it also if you trained you git so or if you don't trainin a start training speaking of origin man were doing
the origin of merging camp up and made echoed i are goin to be there training and going super hard ah the will be there to the last day of the first session in the and the first
day of the second session the sessions are august twenty through twenty third for the first session in twenty four to twenty seven from second session come on up here i be there
as you want to training it's goin t be the time at what i like about it is that the master the master is a stitched ule from four o'clock in the morning until nine o'clock at
night ten o'clock at night where or move in this thing where did you want five hours six hours of judea day sure and in the rest of the time when we do the other ah hours a day
were the into a yea yea i testators the morn i allers of long two hours afternoon i'm in maybe not training ole time buried the unisonous to showing the cancan you go over this
with me he got a question for you hey echo teach me out manolake that you got but whatever no no things are reader do that yet bore so that six hours and then we sleep for four
hours so that ten hours that's fourteen hours is forty hours we be just walking round in circles going bethinned on hangout so if you want to come train some juditha out come to
that camp up and manes come all some women no ah when have good time up there and until then will we rolling in another place victory of a man has also will we really in the
interest twitter the instigate and dat face bore borracho is at echoed charles stand i am at jocelin and finally thanks to every one for listening to this part cast which is
brought to you by our military who were out there holding the line against evil world wide it's also brought to you by police landforce men fire fighters paramedics and all their
first responder who make this country safe here on the whole than so weaken and joy life liberty and the pursuit of happiness thanks to all of union form for what you do and the
rest of you that are out there leading leading wherever you are and whatever you do leading yourself and the people around you in the right direction for toward go toward the
light toward a better place setting the example and getting after it so until next time this is echo and jocko owen
