this is jacopo cast number eighty six with augers and me joaille bid evening echo biddie and it has been a little while since we got down to some cubanacan on top of that all the
social media i have not been as responsive as i normally am i've had prioritize and execute a bunch of other things things like master things like books that are due things like
that so and a bunch of travel and a bunch of work with a long front et cetera era so but i do get the questions i read the questions i read i read if you post on thing than you
tag me in it on toward her oh you put a comment on isingham i read it a hundred per cent ye i read it but lately and normally i would like everything that i see sir i would like
to just just say you know her i saw the roturier im here i heard you but lately i haven't a mile to that than to its just been i read it more i move we to move ah but if there's a
good question comes up i copy it i past it a put it in the inner question bank and then when we get to do a quay we answer the questions that i think you are they get asked a
bunch you know so i've seen a book a question for five times that tight of question or just a unique question that take a lot of people competition enough where we end up with so
to day quay and betrothal first quest i do an end that on twitter all proceed all the one say he like everything you know yes certain things sometimes they don't necessarily want
like you like you know mariquina answer you know like you can't like sat like listen has this like really trying time or something whom and they say something to whatever and it's
a question like cahoot to this he can't just like it and move on okayannie i do in those situations is i like it i copy the question and i put it in a question though all kisser
like is my life has various meaning my like does not mean like ye my like means receive god just yes yeh excitin and it is a heart ye what i vehemently as grisapol of and disagree
with you know carton nora now no heart i no's world night nests but i do is my ways and i read but in what i'm saying is it saying that i'm read it in tilling you that right at
this the past like weak i read everything i was read everything but i haven't even liked him because i haven't had time to start i like them thing yes because if i like it that
tells me that i've gone through it and if i had to pull something from it it's how i keep track of what have read and an ever not just honored is how i keep track of what i had
extracted pertinent information from yea i might have to start doing the opposite only like something if i want to go back to it oh ye like a bookmark a maybe i'll start doing
that aflood anyway if you're out there i'm reading your messages you're twits you post ran and appreciate its all good feed back and awsome ye but sometimes you get your you're in
the initial post will sit and and maybe i'm in their maybe some other people and then other people timanthes it starts to morano this conversation between two other year you can't
really like these nectarinea i ally do but just to keep track of where i am just like like all these like littleports this you talk in your ain alsus one big mass like ye say hey
guys are ready here i eumeralla if i like you like you off i went on i like you olesome your commented don't like ye i still like him though ye verbality i like a press like even
though he said something out of greweth don't i still i like like a to you express this so no kind so i even if i hate what you said he still get a little heart a hiogo bishamon
is an eye lampetai like outseen this that's what it means and i all right right and i have all i saw this i saw that one and then you could say like and you should have a thomas
down dislike her like a new to yeah yeah either way the love her first quest he do it a thirty five year old an have a physically demanding job i've been a dry waller for about
fourteen years work about eight to ten hours a day at it comes to working out in finding it really hard to maintain disclination inu as it seemed as i it seems i burnt out
elsevere four so i sleep like you do i can laymen yeelding if i'm just being a posy and need to push through the burnt out or take a different approach to work in out when i burn
out my body to feel weird as well as my head i tend to get depressed and fight it hard deeping go to work just showing the south there for maybe some tips to get over this
succinators and consistent than colutea shall hang and drive off her your hundidale for no yes you know they is okay a better whoraminta hanging senarian yet idea do the hanging
of the dry walketh does not qualify littletail belabored inocculate handrosan it ladhana preciate what you try to say it that the lord i will is hard work yes sir it uses a bunch
of different muscles steer body and of course when you get better at it because i'm not good at it when i when i hung dry wathen i hang dry wall if i do interject i'm not good at
it ismena's good at like this guy that's been hanging drywall years meseems yes he's he's the cold one hand slapping nails an he's nor dry wall screen stilts gaswork on stilts and
not before no no sir goodyear on stilts because they don't they're just boosard up there so but it's hard you do in your basically doing a clean linen a poll the the the dry wall
up your pushing up her using your grip strength on the dry wall then you're doing overhead presses cause you dry wall sealings all doers if so an it's eight to ten hours postnov
to mention your your bending down picking stuff up on that sort eighteen hours of squats cleans and overhead presses with grip or see do that eight ten hours dick so you getting
good physical work her out the day now a look man if you're that drained then first all check edit less matter that were not on the job sight and the dog not truck arrives and you
you're going belly up to the denuntiata monster for monster energy drinks like to keep you goin through the that's goin to hurt you so check the diet it's the good thing is check
a diet and then if you have to use spring your food don't let you know you're bronte's goin to run down through mickey's to grab lunch cause you can pack anything that's going to
jack you up so all that stuff will make you feel weak and atostors and all that that be in said still here workin hard all day you do it hardistry you also come you can see
construction workers bedrawee at her do that hardly bribe and they don't look like there in shape right there maybe the fat may be there just they don't look at her check let go
their diet so generally the coming home and they're getting on their their twelve pack of beer and pizza so did you die it messurado and then when i would do is and i've
workstation before and or even big project of my house where i'm working all day long remodeling pullin down dry wall putting up dry wall deminos whatever ah i still do to work
out now what you're going to do though i do something that is going to complement what you've done during the day so you're getting some pretty good strength work at this point
you're gettin you you get clean to grip or to do all this this hard work or all throughout the day so may be what you need to do is do some more cardiacal at night or maybe it's
just like a really good stretching routines you got your strength you've got your cardian the day or if i think about how much i sweat when a working on a house project mastiman
afloat escape so that means not morano hard so find what can you do that's going to compliment the the conditioning that you're getting from your actual labor and may be in your
case it might just be like straight up mobility it might be straight up mobility like a youribean good stretching or doing some wellbuilt you want oh that's mobilirt of the day
you can go that website they got really good stuff on there to to lose an up and make sure your staying limber because another thing you find with construction guys is then up
with some you know with a bad back with a bad diet you know tendencies a hammer all day or hold and dressily can get those kind of use over us injuries and yes sir i would look at
what you can do that's goin a compliment that also maybe you feel like you maybe just need to do so had he lifting cause you listen something little all day now you lifting drive
all day so agnomen good and durrance muscular endurance but maybe just come home and do do of copleston heavy dead less or a couple such a heavy squats and if the other thing
years like when we are on deployment it when i was back in the in when i was in the military we were on the ponent we wouldn't be doing work out that are going to give you this
the four days of gladened muscular soreness fright innocenter do not can aprico in the pain lock of where hay i did squat yesterday oh echo just got shot i can't help it it right
you tie them aunswere broken someone grab acoumeter sort o my orozimbo quaestor days that's not one is talking about i'm talking about doing some something that happy but it's
quick and you're not you know you're not going crazy and doing so many sets that you're going to build up all kind a lack tegashiwa it busaco so maybe something that but i would
say explore all that look what you can find that's going to make you that's going to complement you what you do work and all seculo tonguecantell look at antoinette although at
first it's a crazy muscular work out of full body work out like you've never had before ye be as your resisting every party of movement and you'll be sore to hear tire body but
then as you get better at it you can relax more that takes a a year a year and a half may be even two years before you have really start to relax the thing that colboth for you as
you got two kids under the age of force so maybe in two or three years there ready start training to know you got some share with them little mitigate so yeah don't kill yourself
find something to complement your work and if that's just stretching ben to stretch ye and maybe allynated when i was a team to see you resides to run all the time i was every day
it was like o monday p t and a run tuesday swimming around wednesday obticlar and a renominated i forget what it was and then friday was a long run was a atele mile runner then my
honoria's so what i would do is old get done with work on friday or get done with a pet on friday and usually would be like half half day frogman friday sure wrongly in ridges
some prior to waroonga doing friday afternoon in the tresilyan go you know get after what your boys in the barn the barter we from my friend from friday be in front marikina went
away one september eleventh happened said this is pretendent promenades we get done with work if you know noon and i would friday go down in cuby squats and then so friday i'd
heal up saturday and sunday backdoor on sunday retrace so maybe you hit just do a good work out on friday ye good hard work i don't pridie the week an feelin good monday back in
the game we hard labour yet require something a little bit different yeah on those of you that are sitting at a desk with an tecomthe screen like a cocales yes sir ye can do a lot
different got to work out when you do that all day for sure you mention the diet i would say with ninety nine per cent certainty i would say i don't know everybody grownest nd
that they may present certainty that if you have a good day i even of immaculate that a good diet in your working dry wolf construction moving or as you know i used be a mover for
a little bit if if you have a good ditman you will watch movingly or my god collified first you know his isometry ah iouan way oh no he i know you were natural mileage but de
credit wasn't the best mother i was one in any way that's a tsanin anyway if you have a good diet and your doing this kind of work that is your work up essentially enisling one is
probably a hard work out than most people's mormorote you do and that's within you're so right because when you're working eight ten ouadad there's a lot of work to be done so
your lunch break is like dang this is a gingo to get some delicious you know it would track right here now or this you know mc donald little ware of her wherever it's not you know
you but you get a good diet with this kind of stuff you assentially have a great work out along with a good diet and you're going to get result just that if any in a way you won't
even really have to do these supplemental work out unless you have different goals so if you're like um okay i'm just going to do my work i am not a good diet and then i stretch
afterwards which is such a good idea when you adaiel stretch you know get all that peloubet way bet you'll feel way better to him you'll be surprised how how much easier the work
becomes reatinians may be there's like i said you need to look for a compliment at ye so with dry wall i don't i don't know you know it's probably not dead lifting cause you left
lifting stuff all day but maybe it's just like some hard core i'll like aborescent that you're goin to work your to you know and that's going to strengthen your lower back it's
going to offset all the pressing your back all day so maybe it's that maybe it's you don't pull up poutre pulling yourself up tense so maybe you're doing to work out mine do like
one to work out on fridays you do it aband pull ups yea and then during the week you're doing a twenty minutes stretched session yet to really make sure your head sir opened up
her eye sort like them guys from tenth plan as you siseable their flax the ole that's that you have to be you have to be able to do lodestone your back do from any brother you go
i can't do the lowest i can't get my black brew from any brother no no no you can't no sorry till i should be able to do that at some point indeed depends on it you mean my should
but ye me cool you the load is a work on that and you don't report back but yet the diet the i think the diet thing that's going to be seventyfive if not more per say o people
have you of your show they say oh you don't see enough and how could how you not see he don't eat crap you you don't use more sleep ye check that out give that on a trot yes an
end life lit face it there's people can be different with him yes requirements your anerley you know like if i said he jolicoeur in prison for on no whatever and you have eight
hours of sleep he nay fred i was wearily other know how i aittah and coolie times free shipboard deponent as a seal and we our seal on a ship you have no job you know like the
guises that a thegither are in the regular navy that are driving the ship and maintaining this ship and steering the ship and all that they have a job he no job ah yes and so what
we we could either sleep he or lift and that's a reisettstock for free tea and left but some guys would thee a lot ye wine pilot wenerated had sleep disorders there was a guy that
slept for like twenty nine hours but they need wake up and stay awake for thirty two hours an then he go back to bed i yeh was kind of weird with he cut his his siccatee was way
off ye and then that happens to one to ship because you can stay inside the ship with no son for free you want her the familiar was to go out as most suicide of the ship we get a
sun tan the topic sir that to put ye think you oh ye you sleep different and yes some eight hour in actually i've done the thing where i got used to only getting like six six and
a half and it it started to work like i say a hot here delanoni didn't like the area tried to go back to actually only get six maybe seven now anyway because the kids being anyway
the diet i think will i've pefore thing i believed this to be a fact omnipresent or more solution to the whole problem there the diet clean of the divide when your lunch yes day
way from the middies yes it was more so the wet again men that's that is hard though consider it i mean i have you yet it's hard to your tired it's a cycle that you start going
down ask if you tire on home seen make any food for the net an ex day so that men you brought something crapper you want fast food and now you ate the fast food which makes you
feel bad with me than i whom your tires greatauk lunch on the next day which means your own as batyle ye and that's how mentions the pleasure part of the cause latentis hard work
i need some bread leaf from the ardworth work on my lunch break three in langholm dark chocolate ye may be right like bring some chocolate milk yeah dey get a skirt and it fully
well are ye billy we'll say our hugely it it's not as bad for you as a mountain de yeller or a piazza by the slice of from the doric of the turk yet and that's usually what it is
men take from me i know for i onefas it away that was one question were twenty minutes deep and it came at a generator the bottom of the tidings could got holt though there
wasting so big look if you do it let's say no if you think all yet mabel change my diet but you know what okay i'll maybe i will be the one i'll just kind of folks on the work out
part of it sooooooooooong once i mouselike ah i didn't do any cardianus kind o lifted and whatever my diet was not all that and sursis being strong i went to the doctor they said
your your call astral thing you know some stuff on the inside i was super on healthy he was like your unhealthy i want being in strong like wet sir but i can benchot like for the
one matter so you can hang drill all day on day and tannate good endurance if you can do that all day every day for fourteen years by the way and be like oh unhealthy cos you ate
wrong the alameda met queen up the bit as good news claimed the diet nathanael will situation face scratched you how you corolina pride back into and an individual and ultimately
a battalion i'm on my seventeen seventeen years serving in the british army i've been in my role for about a decade and a about to move on to a different job recently of came out
of my platoon babble and noticed their arduous issues i identified and looking at help my seal sea in fixing it arose so you are in still pride back into or a italian into a unit
and to an individual in my opinion prodome margaritone's from disappoint pride comes from performance and bride come from winning and how do you win you win from hard work you win
from disappoint so latoile you were cared you stay disappointed that makes you start to perform that makes you start to win when you start to win you get pride and of course is a
diameter to ease you gonorrhoea to hard right you can do that so you have to balance it then it's funny actually made for stockau this i think it enthuser with a company and he
was saying when we formed up asking that bruiser we worked hard we were to lagarde the normal tasking its work we stayed later at work we came in earlier and you know he was
saying they when we first the first like monk we were together than in jocoso everyone coming in early in all this stuff and people are grumbling about it and why we got no this
extra stuff then he's doast ers people gumming amon but then once we started going through training in our performance was above our peers then all of a sudden it turned from
grumbling till like pride so that thing than the guy they stopped complaining and there's our bragging eh because you know what were the brutes of course you're not a work as your
your asking at is weak we are strong you are weak get away from us we don't want to be associated with you say sar getting that which is you know proud ye so i think that's a got
do you got to still the hard work the discipline in your team it'll hurt a little bit at first you got to make sure you don't go overboard with it and that'll get you what you
want if you need further references on that reade book called steel by soldiers heart by colonel david hackworth or read about face by cornelia worth he talks about this city take
thee takes battalion is getting of venom with no pride and turns them into people with a ton o cried how does it do it make some more card makes him have discipline and then they
take pride and what they're doing we by example yes yes only and hawk worth he doesn't change everything at once he was in comment and just go crazy starchamber small things a
couple of day ah think literally he says to a day begane to things a day but he did start off with a big thing if you remember this he checked in his battalion guys have radios
guys have guitars guys have little bars set up i got all dis cap he was a everything that you can for the rocks a to morrow morning in the middle of the compound here we did read
of it that was a big wake up call for every one but it was a lizzie up call and also it was why we do in this wall were doing the cetaean move when we move we can hit at night out
hiddingh we won't lose anybody so ye good stuff makes sense it less sorry for the english in french that's a disclaimer how can a man that has not grown up with the confidence and
trust being male role models in mentors sort of anti uncle jake persons only intellectual of sameness without disrespect to these people how can they become a confident man and
develop the necessary man skills counqueri it's interesting you can say man skills in cosening we pretty much know what that means right yes like woesomeness so how do you do that
you don't have any positive role model around you that's i can uncle jake retire most people don't have an uncle jack yet it that's not nonagon most people you got what you got
and in this case he sang he got like the intellectual so you know oh my parents were a college professors and they don't have any of these kills in the citron in talk about
philosophy right now i ended up i can talk about philosophy well but i can't fix my car or i can't defend myself yet in a combat scenario in the streets and so what do you do do
okay this rosebud things to do things lifts starlit but anowed lift learn how to squat up that's a blest part about being a man right sure is italy strophical song learning you
did too i recommend that probably courages that one is learning how to fight learning how to defend yourself i got as is the other day kalkilates like what i do if i get
intimidated by the people and i or i don't know how react in people like get in my face i said do you trentino sech unedicated what i genait everyone no one you have to cause you
are i know you can be my right now i sapata you dead you can be a up but if they are to getting in your face and try to punk you and you look at him go pay if you wanna do this
what do that but i don't care i know you can come to my dear i'll turn you out train some duet ah so we got that one run ike sprint climb bill things start building things are why
things do some coming these things are not it it they're not impossible to do now it's goin to take you longer right like i've rewired my parts my house i've replumed part my
house of doll the planing in parts of my house now you want a skilled electrician i do what i'm doing it was literally take him on eight of the time may be one quarter of the time
began were like the dry waller resolutely i'll good dry waller they are like master stood electrician masters a good promoter smooth me it's going to take a while sir so but but
what i'm saying it is not impossible yet not impossible to do and i'll take him more time but you're learning how to do it and that gives you was that give you a gives you the
self reliance it hey i can fix my electrical outlet if i need you so those are good tings work on your car change your way whatever do those things and and again those things like
i so i took all lectricity class in high school sir where we learned how to wire rooms and everything to sublet it called electors hold atrocity class at em i took electricity
with scotty was the teacher's name sir wait you call them scattery one called him scotties an older guy his name is scottice his scottish so scotty but we we learn how to walk wi
er houses and all that well i do remember any of that when i was now in twenty years later fifteen years later i'm a rewiring my kitchen where i wish i ripped out of my house okay
so what a day do you know i did went down the home depot i bought a book called all lecturer and i read through it and i'd followed the directions same thing with coming go down
by a book called hoed due plumbing and you do it and it and the good thing about this stuff is it's very satisfied to do that kind of work yes it's very satisfying as we do it and
you can over engine or things you make things you bristolian your own house is a cure if super ye you can and a go the extra distance because it's your own ear own house so that's
cool oh so those real physical things and some kind of knowledge things that you can start working on what old the hardest thing to overcome here is like a level of embarrassment
yet the halicti don't know anything about why ring oh yeah you know i don't know i embarrassing about wiring yeh that's to answer people don't want to say anything so they rather
to say well generation in her figure this one o ye here hayles get yet so there to cumbers but if you have time do yourself ye and don't be a berceau belike i am more unready
kitten to had no idea what i'm doing you a game as buck yes what i need to get a gimmeone goes it's it's good to have good tools yeh ah also so that's that's like i said those are
things that you can do you know um but teshoo you know least's a good good god have also read right read ah about history read about survival need about the world read about human
beings under dress read read books good books about good stuff but challenges it's an enjist like marking way toward your kid he he doesn't know his time tables yesler them yet to
go learn all the seven tin yet go learn and wit with time your confidence is going to grow and from humility you'll grow into being more confident now you also say don't have any
mentors on romadour you that's okay cause i was mentally mentors and romans are in box and you can find em you can i start rademacher good mentor to half mad neneveh a guy rode
you a one thousand page book on how to lead in this for you that's pretty awesome beyond banderoles by dick winters guess what here's a guy that was the in charge of the band
brothers in normandy and he wrote a book for you for anatole so those are some examples and but at most the books that we've covered on this or many of the books if we govern the
spokes and give you a mentor better than any one could possibly hope for you so you can get it there for it and we most ycome war books but there's books but kind of people that
can be for al mentors so breed study do do that's my invisente ye that physically strong thing is in my opinion a big deal cause especially what with um you intellectual types and
that kind environment it is since that's not really a priority allowed the time you've tend to a hole unit into something so you punish sin it as you yalahao i find i see is in
nothing all your time but you know sometimes the indian wife take down so knocking a dog and then you think of all the reasons why you don't need to do it and how guy's focus to
it you know or whatever so in an intellectual circle we'll see hell circles sometimes we'd be like oh yeah those meet heads or whatever you know they just they'll shut it or you
say oderation now had a esir but they'll do that sir and then they'll be these for physically frail people but since they there in their mind smarteth everyone i feel like that
the one up in their kind of visitant of satisfaction there there but at the end of the day your physically weak cum soldier and i think most of the time i think outknow but it
seems like most of the time now have these feelings like disguster like fear man how can i develop could i feel it you're here unless they just want to be in denial bright that's
what exactly banyan also he had by the way the same thing happens in the reverse reef a guide or is just a meet head and he shone his end and disrespect or to disregards the
intelectual silesian that is this that is equally as bad odether not better now it's going on they're not knowledgeable to not learning they don't understand the world in a clear
way so find a bounce between those two things yet they and of what's great is those things are not mutually exclusive like you don't have to just be immetated or just have to be a
bookworm i you can do both there's plenty of time in the day to do both least ask guy with a big dead listen i'm sabethany not a fair yet but i work in on it we and then that one
love of which is that you git part of it you did a thing to a man but lerisco ines the intellectual face with physical picture and in a way you can hate i would i am not
recommending this at all in fact i my gainst this but this is the nature of digito you have to be that like you'll have to have a big dead lifted to dominate and to differ silas
to de do any of that so you cannot essentially overcome the physical part of it if even to you a physical but it's a you have to go you know overcome on to her part of it for it
to a point yes but in every day life i mean you you're trying to your trying to be he said i like you some one better than you augusta outraging her that i really bothers you let
you talk of a fiery one or else i want you jacintha let's say it motivated adamooli like it like a dozen bother me an right right right i mean like for instance i dinwiddie yea he
is better i mean jittered i every day on a train with him right so doesn't bother you this is not bother but like what a acomes you like a moulinet all only he does it like i hate
it at the end of a hammering deep opens on to me by witherill had it i do i hate it and i love it and i were just as open by the verdict we got to old scrap yesterday if you know
indicated the training and all of a sudden things got so late roman knew was some shouting going on and shouting for avignon he was saying he says and i was saying what i say and
ah but we have you know we had a mutual trust the end sir i think he didn't really want me more i didn't really want to more said we is kinda let's laugh and call it good cause
you your owing the die when i'm old denis there's a nice well happening this if he ends up in a good position on me there's going to be paid to indepen i find up a good position
on him there's going to be paid so i think both of us we got away a little bit on escape neither one was got a really good position and we go out back up to my feet and i noirot
kind o desate mugoreens an unspoken agreement that we were done for the day i had not a tatastha happened but the point there being is in a collikin this weary way you know how
like intellectually you can excel for you can kind of find it justifiable to avoid the physical part of it is almost like you could almost say the same thing about gipsy could
still be effective in defender at off without beastially strong necessarily or but but my porticoes matton of that but a amelia you can be do you can be unbelievable it gogetter
but if you're really really weak and you go against some one that's really good eugene a hell of a stronger than you you asked missus r right yea and a neglecting to get it off
yer i i doin that's ultimately the main point is just like call intellectually you can be you know a black belt and you can sort in a way get away with not necessarily being no
will and set my first he and dan did you though like that third element you i sort of get away without being super strong but so be effective in jonson know i mean so i do at
josian's won the middle he get get that balance by her of your sled beatable to defend yourself is a whole nother thing than being physically strong as in a sinesius but when you
go through life i think it's not because you get these like baggages and like the one of months a mess with him will brow this medium to small die who knows digitos for real
fighting stuff is way more of a town a dangerous but yet ultimately when more dangerous than this big jack i who can lift a lot for sure so that third element that are kind of
line weird when you're a somebody that's super jack and they don't know getters in it a maze in wellsian yes you just think yourself how is this happening ye this is a magical
power yes as you look at a big jack ye yer human instincts tell you look out ye he's goin to that portal nitager than you you know what out but when you know gegesa yeoland
eventually you realize it you don't even have that any more ye you know every one you're looking out thinking well you won't have all you have your caninae the dotation tinct of
fear although you're still you you you might first fall when i look at home as i do they train or not ye do they train her not if they train we we may have issue this in be a
problem if they don't train no factor yet no train no factor yes if they train may a a factor that's why i work out hard try estrang you yet you know you know cause he might be
coming to take my lunch money maybe ritornato the how how this last night literally us i did she do in trust mine i did not the last bell never a real world um erin so you know
the five gallon jugs of water you know is being eaten in a water cooler whatever so this like a little refilling thing that i went to lay with like next time for story before now
has another novelas night ay so i er do duty i know more resilient masheeah it ocarini do that or the last night when i was doing now before jug of you are going sermoning out
walking too much truck to get the empty jokes to go to the little and you as a walking to my truck a carp up right next to the water feeling thing there's a what's called a red
box you know what that is do raredone so parapolu a kid may be twelve years old jumps on to a car he starts like an e with a yoke do it not normal kids whatever and from in the
car that i mail probably is dead some maybe step it really and immediately the dead sir yelling at a josh politian that tank and just to the point where i thought it was kind of
joking were as all joking my daughter like that were cut like tell you will you sometimes to you as ye get up but in it sounded like a joke is like proteaceous and that kid is
like you can tell you it's kind o you stood ernesi i am i'm doing i'm trying you know what i would ever and i look at the whole party luck to hear her and is at night time figure
sitting so i want to my chuck on my brow if i get to this place and this guy still there not even yell monther i'm going to have to say something not be a dick not be like rayoole
tint like that i'm to try to solve this problem be like it is kittewake er i had this little thing before i knew jogtrotting like that i wouldn't a master of it i would not even
be in like bigger whatever and strong i would have been like a man that's sung ever known the eton or going on in ye you know but men i was like manono do i i grabbed it and i
then left sitting at opportune but from just saying deserting that can happen on varying levels every day they are an effer and intellectual that no and i must sing if your
intellectual body if you don't have these elements of polite skill or they're knowledge or whatever like toastings mess with you you know only aracan do when i did i mean utile
and where i figured out what you just you was when master chief steve bayle choked me and he as he was an old man at the time probably three years younger than i had and i being
of my wealth this how this guido the statute that in pletely insane i need to on whatever he knows yet he somewhat ever you know cause i don't want to feel that way ever brought
and then your training it like lily you trained for five years for five years your training not a gets people don't know you're training against before who owe you an not a
dangerous people who do know like how to defend your ship and then you go to the real world now for ye you have this guy has no idea of your how much control you have over and you
didn't touch it there i see ye there totally to gain this this whole thing were minor and that ere thing about em some guy was the guy was on his promise like when people get in
the face or whatever the probe wasn't getting beat up in her long people getting your face an how you react in the ridin right off by that feeling god yea because you are in your
your hundred right because he said he wasn't scared of fighting when he was an like i might get in trouble he was he didn't like how he felt dreadful like he should do something
and he felt like a wan pacing when you know that you can destroy somewhere then it doesn't matter any think there idiot yet you beat them you get the strength and the skill was in
you actually beaten him it on an intellectual level on thoughts like a dead olongapo oraison the hour all rightly it yet you think if those three and up intellectual sideplay
whatever mental physical and skill was defending yourself protecteth right there got stuff not just to how hard you when a hit it really you want it it or i think she'll do now
very beneficially had an art exist coco should some one always be detached kestrike forward garstin a the answers now some one shouldn't always be detached as otherwise you aren't
enjoying anything in your life so don't always be attached detached no but at the same time that ben said you should be aware all the time if you are getting sucked into the
emotional vortex right you've got to be aware of that once you have that awareness you don't need to be cached all time at all you can i'm not always detached i don't but but i've
got a clear warning signs when things start going sideways i and i start going down some for text i know mediately i just a tachetees it's but it's a database an event my realized
that you know when you're feeling overwhelmed on your feeling it emotional and you feeling angry or your feeling frustrated we souling those things and you've sent a really
quickly and you recognize him you just detached boom you're done ye so that's what you got to do start recognizing those red flags so that you can enjoy the good things and with
some state getting crazy you can detach yes that's like a over all kill of penible to control when to detach and when you don't have to being able to dent to find ye when you need
it attach then being able to detach that your god yes it's like it's matter of being capable of making an accurate beneficial choice yes lechlade ifications hard part yes there's
an what happens to people when it acoetes ego the after the fact that realized i lost my temper and i did this atoka you didn't touch in time and that's why you ended up there so
or i said some things to my you know my excoriata i shouldn't essad cause i got to mortial exactly and you didn't detachent e you got crazy in the motional so the skill that your
missing is identifying when you're starting to get to emotional whatever that a motion might be what you denieth yeh kin like control then you can take a trip yes and make
tactical move ye not emotional mosedale ly that though art you know noineteen holiday dazzle bay nor tacon you know what the move when you are emotionally to tache the moose
actually at that hard there actually usually pretty obvious like our beer and a fight with your difrent and and you're starting to go down the wrong way as soon as you did that
you go oh i know it i knew to do ye i should say him sorry and to that we can go the restaurant but she wants to go to a white you know a man i'll give thee the mines are on
actually that hard then we never make good moster being emotional i said we just don't know i don't work on that restaurant we went the frog through i don't know care if i said
that to you reserve me to say that you ye ye ye that that the new go down wrong both but what if somebody like detached the whole time even one problem still aright i know like
that and we don't have a relationship right i thought it enough to do tassman so to certain topping to that all the time massanutton grey so it's lay reiterated it for every one
yet this one is for in an i let a time i mean i lie as you ha in a learn to you to you all in the lorettes people up the brothers not really what it is do you get to is having the
skill to conquest we pull up but what you learn ultimately is you put yourself in a position where you can make that decision region the mason up or not you know and of control is
ruisselet really when one people that start with the vision of our belles people up most people continued that that do continue on the journey of judea are right at a point where
they realized that they don't want to abuse this power that they now it most people there is a small present of people that don't that our bellies it holes on they started in may
become more effective bullies year more fearful more more fear in housing belles ye with socks eh but you dittoes here is gonna have some of it yes the tree be compared to like
that on an on anything more it's like striking base or whatever i like you it lit i've said this from a candee in it but you go from zero to ten when you throw a strike that
orreana can't just throw a light on an be like okaredo cold no you might be in the face lachatre it to hand her the note out or not deals forty because were i see i see my kids in
in in what you're talking about canape very easily when other people are in the group with my kids i mean cause they be training did you so even like against any normal kid
there's no factor eugenio we restlessness no actor he and it's you know it's genialities cool fraeulein a little you know my kids aren't like gigito like this kid out there that
are sick competition time right that that's a one i homealong bout like just knowing you juste a hundred cent correct yes and well when i see kids doing did you do specially like
i'm not saying in a necessarily even in a turnament i'm the man indigenas there on at the beach whatever one i see promenoirs i could have done it i pleasure you don't find out
would be sure manteaumakers for it narry next west jack i'd been off to job as a deputy sheriff of a few months before the position is actually open i really want flash need to
get into some geo do to the nature of the job closely to me is over an hour drive away years finances are an issue when it comes to that kind of drive plus festo attend le main
question is how do you feel about grace's online school as an option if i were to find others who one alert would this be effective ah yes so here's a canon do get a matyobane map
even get you he piece of canvas for a home depot or piece of final and string it between trees all the ground you just have not he did made him all over grass that works a down it
a train on with a truck called a six by in the military the big giant like a truck sure and has oensket ortygia warm move the truck with the canvas tarboe the diatribe of takin
that thing off and that was my mat on top of the trap no no no takin it off with top of the pony took that capering that came as i laid on the ground to guess what i got now do it
mate strong put in but with stakes in the ground we're got to go ye to canvas but it's good to go so you do that then you get on you to you don't you do you know you go grace
cademy at marcella all mine nose a really good i would have to start with you to do i get some basics down get some on eels get and you need two three four friends if you got a
friend that wrestled get him in there i have you got a friend what did you do get him in there um and then you just start looking at the moose and fighting each other and try to
see what works and don't go not on each other trying figurers at doesn't work learn a basic concepts and then maybe saturday maybe every other saturday maybe one saturday a month
you drive an hour to eschol with your bodies you go in there you say hey man we live up and wherever an hour away from here if we give you ten bucks we get on the map we know this
weekend we just for just for a couple of hours can you to look at what we're doing maybe even say he look in the form was get a private will all give me twenty bucks at the eighty
bucks you make in an hour a coach please so then you get some detail training and that's going to give you a base you know that's a thing your best option yes fully and these them
on line a indicates an stuff yet esentially what they're made for if you can't minutely how to me o you if you are made to do me you go to began omit year and in a game as he yet
and i think podcast number six we talk about what to look for in agitate it si gobaeas number six a year starting to giton you want to find a good academy go back upon tester suck
yea seeing there yes fully and i think the startsev you don't know do you total all i think a lot of a started you i do with watching you see one two three four the you know so we
kind o after watching that we kind of see okay i see if your mount if you have mount that's good er if you're a bottom guard if you you know so you picked out right and i didn't i
knew what joe was so i didn't get to experience trying to learn to basic moves from seeing on yours so in taking what you're telling me as factual and it makes some sense but so
did you actually like compute the the position as you will like okada's the guards you must watch in detail will no less to watch remotely okay that i gostrey that is to turn that
white thing that white uniform look what you do this guy's legs closed round like a bathe you guys were doing essentially foot though as even the announcers weren't calling a
guard back then were they ah yes there is a guy who's real nerdy guy than he was though you see two onesima be in that i forget which one was which but yet he'd he knew and you
could tell he was like kind of prideful that he would trainante but the aussolas going to pull in between his guard like that donadieu he knew and he will canoncito mount and it
was reverberative because he do seem a an so ye you you essentially if you're painting you learn guarded n't learn how to do in our bar how did you know well when i teach kids
sometimes i'll just say you walk for like let's say kids been training for a day so first day you want to keep your legs around them it that's guard there even now that we go and
then you say the other kid you want to get a way from there or get around their legs yes answered they just try and do it and that's to pretty colasterion off verberie at what
kids will instinctively do the machine's appetere yet and you even at the muster yenowine it just real quick cure okay this is moutis was roger his garden in portant that's really
like the other day um added there was a new girl in there and him sarah i remember that case you know i know someone else seems so but anyway oh adam it was time to roll round
seeing hyteria know there's some new people here she marseter of experience can you not an old teacher something you know as the round to a i cause i didn't have a partner in her
half came in late with ever but so i went and i did essentially that just for crash course this is mount this is guard this is a side mourad this is the importance of each one and
then this is literally takes five minutes and so here's importance of her one and then i do a little quiat the end as a a bumble we fight it's like a past be we fight borealt or
where you want to be there and then you know so it's like a little quiz and boom right there at five minutes you learn everything that i learned from watching you set one to three
but in a oratories ying them and you were trying to figure out but ye your annieite for somebody shown it to exactly right if that's what they're teaching you a lot of times
popolo in on their first day and some casemates if their dealt they'll have an introductory classicus just kind of hat is called introductor can but if you're like an my first day
let me see what i can learn them they'll learn like some oh you don't almololoaian how this even make sense to to me you know there if you are that crash course i or you know even
by the mostana's white so cool use you go over that and was like the dhanishtha and now you're a better off nor is antennary one has heard us talk about you get so they have this
anticipation of it being really cool and then when they connect the dots between like oh you learn the mouth and then you learn the guard and then you learn the setup sweep and
when you done with the sit of sweet her bear from the guard your back in the mount and he brought i get loeverday there's the magic mill it is and it's a tensely before the actual
move like doing the mood it's just you have to know what important o let not like if you mounsoon just by habit since you are now what mountsey import upon but if you wind up on
the mouth you tenpence the die mine in the fight you're turning unto the din traditam and try to win the fight but punching the guy is not what you should be focus on primarily it
should be keeping the mountain the prosiest repetons going to automatically now that's not now you triteme up the gun man too i can punch on lemme poncho but no just one of the
many examples that request jocko my boss is incredibly controlling an eagle maniacal of any like him already devayani have i attempted to use extreme ship in dealing with the
people under me but my boss has reprimanded me for leading he is said he gets he gets to do all the leading because he is the one in charge quite unquote and and his job title is
higher than mine that that happened to me before by the way if i can continue to try to lead my responsibilities will be taken away if i step back into the shadows i won't make
any impact on the people under me what should i do so black and white and his mind seemed to luganese step of a leading get fired or step in his shouts and do nothing
neversuffered not is not that way right now is not backing white not and actually start by putting your own ego in check cause you're calling some one even when ice but ere your
ego is being being touched a little bit here no no wrong way a little bit because you want to lead and we get told don't lead you middendorf's your heat that's your he so what i
need to do is maybe like that you like the feeling of being in charge that's how i like the feeling of being church it's feels good to me feels morito me when i'm out in charge i
don't like it i have to consciously suppress it which is fine sometimes you have do that like right in this situation here this guarino and what you need to suppress is you need
to not be so over with your leadership he shouldn't even be able to sense that you're leading but you should be leaving you got to be under the radarate cover with what you're
doing and by the while you're do that your misagathus ego make him feel good about it make him feel that is running things and because because you can absolutely lead from the
shadows if your ego allows it be lottie when we won't we we lead we want a gun another with eating a however to no vamachari a then a no bad on the lay on the right that's really
hard when you're leading from the shadows all at a time not even to people that you're leaving recognize overtly that you leading think about that so the people that are actually
following you don't even know that the falling you they don't they don't consciously know it may be if they were to break down and you give give like a hay who do you think is
actually giving you a short byalik it might be probably that seems like its echo okay okay but they don't wake consciously think about it so that's a cave you need it rupes your
own vergleichen not step on the boss's toes must fishes leaming's evil to because if you do get your respond you want help right well you want to be helpful you want to leave
these people a great way if you don't if you get yours anotta away or you get fired then you can't help any one anybody not got help with eve at all so you have to be smart and
you have to play the game till wines confidence and his trust so he does let you eat and what's going to do that when he realizes that you are good not got one step on his toes
that you're going to get the credit cause he wants gradient he's controlling so that's a mind to what you need you now this is the wooshing and this came up with the most people
don't want to hear me say that people don't want to hear me say that people don't want to hear me say that if i come up against a boss that mad ego what you need to do is back
down people don't want to hear me say that they stay want hear me say if you come up against some one with a big y go what you do is you bow up to that had you shown that they
ain't got notin knowing you yet no backtothelander at going that's week you hananiah master said i should listen cause i could see it i see it people are like all the august
jackal is always or cos i thought it was a eson a back down to somebody with a big eagle and i said guess what people this is why you feel that way if there was a a machine gun
nest on a hill and there was a bad guy in there he's killing a bunch of people shooting at machinegun and every one in the room wants to look at jacko and say jackastral and jocos
toughing jack's gone charged that machine gun nest i take that guy out or guess what a machine gun belt fed weapon in an elevated position bunker in i'm not then take that guy out
i can't he's a heavily defended position i can't do that so what jocose his back down i hid it i get behind cover so i don't die once i've gotten behind cover so i don't die i
look at choisy echo stay here shoots some rounds at this guy casionally distract him i'm going to flank him so echoes going to keep under cover itself he can a plain some rounds
up at the machineguns while he's doing that come in to scurry away like a little baby like a little sneaky little squirrel i and i'm going to go round to the flank courtemanche
one is in a bunker right three camp see out besides i'm a comin up the side i'll get a get right beside me to grenade in there and killinek out the ego but i didn't do it going
had on so what happened is people come a gun up against this beggoe and they want to be the hero and they want to be a bressing then they want a ride all to dress if johnnyboy a
chapter in your bondage gress it man or it be deef apheresis against that ego wrong answer ye the ritner indirect warfare the rightness in the new forwarder the right answer you
flank these people and by the way if i do charge that machine gun nest i do attack that guy's ego guess wot i die or i get fired to now no good anybody so its people have this
this desire to be the strong hero man and you have to fight that that's your eagle that's my hoarding machine gun nest on to go to this allemanno i'm actually not the man at the
machine a noted position with it i e you have to be smart yea like one that its active ye go head on don't attack to have we defended positions head on period like you sit in
training day your voice half training to no money watch it anyway he says this sheet is chest not checkers he's not the first person that ever said i note was but when he said it
in my corner and the less yes default egressive is it default aggressive had to head it's defaulted at egressive in being effective gestas adore your reciver ineffective
antinahuel a being a lessening lateral ing about it that even joco is it an equasion yes keow do you see your mind set from individual contributor to manager growing a company
from nothing to something required being an individual contributor inciting a lot done with the little but as we grow it's clear that any tire people for specific rolls and accept
the except that i can't do everything a very used to getting stuff done and doing everything myself and i feel a little weird trusting some one else to do it how can i of my mind
set to appreciate being a manager over an individual come country beater so for a straight off out of a gate you are actually failing as a leader by doing what you're doing but by
divided by continuing to do things yourself getting a weed to not let people lead your actually failing as leader and therefore failing the team so notion you have to watch out
for that and you know by the way that means the more time that you spend in the weeds getting stuff done yourself because you're so perfect that's the last time that you're saying
outrated that's lost if you think bout you know what's going to happen to morrow and future operations and that's not good to be in that situation so a first of all you need to
build the trust with these people don't have to give a hundred per cent trust esme one out of the gate if if i if we were a company and i hurry you and i'm going to have you doing
some task that doesn't mean i say hey io here's the task o do it and now i'm just going to walk away i don't even know you i don't know how well you can do the task so i say hey
ho here's the task actually watch me do it okay you've seen me do it now i'm going to watch you do it okay cool you seem to be doing that pretty well i'm goin to come to check on
you and two hours see how it's going come back two hours next day i check you once every five hours next day a check you in the morning i tekoan ne afternoon next day just check
you at lunch time maybe two three four days they had rice you once every other day pretty soon you're going to go and guess what i'm doing i'm doing something else doing something
i should be doing i built the trust i can firm that you know how to do it i you trust me because now i trust you were building some team and some relationship so that's all good
so to the original point the i think the way that you shift your mind set is to recognize that micromanage is actually failure no progress is made while you're micromanage the
longer you are my groaning some one the longer it takes you them to develop as a human being and as a useful person in your organization every minute that you micrometeor is a
minute of them not thinking for themselves is a minute for them not taking orders in something from my gramigna your task erotan ownership of it if you're not taking orders of a
we know where that leads em so let people learn let people lead and did not do that is fairly i don't fail one time when on in white darians had fifteen autonoae it is not a long
time ago all be sleut i learned to drive with my dead before that you know when we're young would get up quite as droad everywhere so he's a cat you know and it started with one
we were young when we are young young like seven eight years old we'd sit on his lap so he do the shifting and the gas in the breaking stuff like that dirt rolled just do the
steering slatkin started with then after while he's like okay now we're just going to learn how to do this you know is a manuriness dictates you agog now you just learn how to go
in to go and shift yearsall on the dirt road whatever and so is like fifty just ring fifteen or may be fourteen and he was like he am estike it let's go dry no usually it'd be
like we were going to eat on the way home alestake this tirolean steer kind of thing but this was actually like okay let's go drive so my garage bought he passim in the front seat
and he goes it take us there and were quinteroons like right take us there if i dang onore steered before i shipped you haven't done the whole thing all at once but you sthraight
there you could sit take us there is like don't i took took him there whatever he didn't continue much you know oh but i got there and he just kind of let it happen is the same
kind of thing where first he is checking my steering then you chitter time to yours and i and an after a while i bowdoin i he's still managing his rat there he could ride his foot
over to the break if he need it though i guess if nettie put his hand on the wheel steer you away from the oncoming truck if need be again i sent at the same time he let me make
little micromanage the cure little bit yet oreehoua more than you'll stick shifted in mines or yeah well any let that happened he because that's my thing to figure out the fuel
cause each a difference or in a cool because it actually good at one time we were going on offerman first to payment to iraq and we or driving a far distances to cities we never
been through before and we've got turnaround in the city and we were had a far way to go to our jective it was a kind of a high profile operation and worked we stopped and i hear
the call to radio like all stop and i say something along lines of you know what's up and you know the the the point man which is the lead nave in the vehicles he comes up in the
reerecting mavericks testress how walkup so i get out of my vehicle just to make in this guy's warm my brows and i walk up to the cold and eating there and i had see he's he's
flustered he trusted in his a yum i don't see embarrassed but he's flustered and now i'm there needn't mean yes and now i think we his thoughts are jools you know jagas going to
be mad or or whatever i and i i go up and he's e he's crichope the door right open the door on the hunt and i go you know what i mean to in the most malevolent up an he goes i i
had an order i was like comatic purity levin now any good dial and he's a all right cool you and that's what we did so gentoo like he could see his face i keep just turned back
and peter started work and but when i walked up to me now you could see the aspenick in because you know you've got we had a bunch of vehicles you know you got seven vehicles with
us and and they're all driving round and i've done to lacson hosts not funeray know you you make it through a like pass the enemy one time you got away with lola now you went by
and three times linacer one in the whole book took troop in sitting there in the vehicle going hold on jack asked is going to run us by this check point again or in othello us so
but yess went up he brothas going on and i'm just turned if i don't know what we're at oin't hated curt lemindee got to figure out the pie still good in that beats so good i knew
because you know every one is feeling the starlike what you're saying for literis a dang where is it alienation i'm sure every one was feeling that of then is like a right i got a
kind of detached from that feeling in goshdanged o cause was in or to send a i said the guys ameca a ginestreto here about a few minutes when we when we know were at an evased
neseka be done there was another time we got ambissa that the almanser and i was in vehicle number two and won a big convoy and the the ambush pretty much was aimed at the center
and in the back of the convoy so bunch maingon fire but she harps and nothing really hit and reface nothing did hit the arbuties went over us and and i was i would never say much
on the radio right sir and the guinea vehicle a diacoratum chief have but i i say it didn't say much but clearly we just got impersonations enfired exposing you don't off and we
powwow we go through the weed continue on and the potosi in the back he says something on the radio some the long mounds of yes i you know comes up erisichthon don we we wish and
he with ham with back here and i got on the ranis roger had and you know it at no ayoway i guess we're all right you had i called good for good and then you can credenda think you
did me like that one day yes in fact when i say i think i mean i remember the time you didn't get so i was i forgive me right now you just talk about an actual ambush or actually
i had in capersome thing a way lessen back for i just barely the least or asking for forgiving is merciless he was actually this portiere corded like a week or something to early
or is like boom let me to finish the whole thing get it ready to get pushed out all any you done all i had to do is press lithe buttoned make it like that's all i had to do and
this was like a week ashington two weeks in advance with a good old days are partout um and when the day came it was so done it out of my mind the day came in i was just like he
in unison on my mind so the longer short i i didn't do it though you again press publish as read to her anyway so i wake up in the morning as he message to abundant i intend that
but i had got a tex message i think there might even been a phone call honour and all is a phone call and of a text message from you or her this you know this is the something new
to my girandola it was no i mean now i hear he was no aerial was something that obviously i can you know i get this early in the morn her otherway her you so i look at it um and a
furlong the voice as at first in it was you all coming like he has a coin ah good morning caricature the this you got um just a sort of like you know it's wednesday you know we
have that but not pocasse recorded that you don't that's supposed to be going on right now so whenever you can whenever you ready go ahead and post that ebat it wasn't like all
the teroahaute that and here is a actiniae ye ready to good you know i didn't know what i have made you under more stress than ever no you got to sink when you're a bearship
position not that i'm like the leader here but if you are in a leadership position you don't know what's molesworth it maybe that some technical issue and i'm like critical you up
he tequila war that thing and are you freak out eingesehen need to make it any worse if there is something going on like you were sleeping saithe want no but you always think
about the respective of the other person that you're dealing with and you don't want to escalate thing eats no gonel ye just scale a man just wonder what's up then now for
anything for me on the pack as may be we need to re record it i don't know i i let me know i'll be over aisier for and like what two people shouting at each other and you can in
say stravogin your he anotheree people shouting a yeasay way next question jock i've not sure i agree with your statements not to pursue belt in jujitsu it doesn't seem wrong to
me to bed marks success using a rising rank as a quantifiable measure of success as the person is working to master their craft any craft it's nice to have markers for
accomplishment and engagement while belts why have belt if they are not to be strive for or why have a rare and that's actually a a little conversation i i had as soon as he asked
me this isis with brand on you brennan aretheus he's been around like since day one in inlinin the game here and we are going back and forth on somebody he set the actually sent
me this random pity and me tex about stuffing or whatever we're doing some projects and and what not and he sent me this random thing well guess his random to the knee it was ran
in to him it may be he just listened to pontesordo talkin about the space and you know he ireland's tuff about bolted so and by the way brandin is headed goal of doing a hundred
burkes in ten minutes brandon is in good shape he is an intact athletic due and resonne can't do a hundred brisotin minutes don't know where he's at right now we are publicly
calling him out here to pose his you know tede video no cut no cut yer maybe don't have to postling a take it one for because he's owned it a bunch of times you'll put like he'll
do a hundred in or no i think it will he be do any his bending ten minutes worth however many can do neelie eighty four ye so and he'll post of a adiante minutes with it on notes
at the ten the tell the one to ten every withered every minute in or something it have to be less cause actual burpee will take us certain men of time yet at yeni know that
they'll arneel you can in a minute is not as that hard yeah but cluster rest and inodorous in the minute i plashed ear yet let still a good measure so diceretur bury but back to
the conversation of my trapasso brandon had me up and i and you know i understand not you know and a cause as we sat on her like don't worry about the joy about the belt a dozen
in a com i understand beltonians stand trying to earn a rank and that's cool but i'm calling you at some point and i think this will happen if everybody at at some point gigito a
lot more than just about an eventuation by passes what debelare and what the dolts me an now i could you could say back to me that will let your bite ye into that's why you he
that wakes us they don't matter now you're already but both you you know but i testificates that that didn't happen be a backthought happened to me i like purple belt that i think
about made way of my purple belt time i had no care whatsoever of what they'll call i was this literally zero and i just wanted to get better i just wanted to know more i just
wanted to keep training i never even thought about it after that and the like even like to grease on your port on your black belt the pet of tarentaise matifat degree are you an
he's about to in the barbotan degree or you and i was like the tendon know i got my back do in two thousand five what is that me you don't hate mean like i don't have the tape on
there with how many degrees i am not but i don't respect did the pages don't care for the personally so and and i think that this isn't like he's like brininstool you know to
master any craft ithin the same with any craft that your trying to master if if you're trying to master the craft ye hopefully and eventually the grass itself becomes more
important than the rank that comes with being skilled at the graft i that's what i would hope for that's what by the way that also makes it a lot easier to keep pursuing because i
don't care my not setting a goricae strike in my belt to day no i don't care if i gastromania learn more and guess what's going to propel you towards more stripes wanting to learn
more ye wanting more stripes is not propel your towards getting more stripes what propels you towards getting more strips in getting advanced in any craft is getting better at
that craft so focus in getting better the craft the belt are going to come in sir even your belt going to come one day pretium not concerned with belt so i glad you're not that
you ain't got much in your future meules yet and i think that this it's like a matter perspective cape for off you mean a black wealth and in thinking that for whatever in
relation easy it seems like that's obvious at an easy free to say use your back all pot ate same time doesn't kind go long with that detachment thing so like her i'm not in the
game but it's no reason for me to foote striving for any belt right now so i can be detached i'm not emotionally invested in the whole situation i can look back in and at the same
time understand when i came up me being focus on belts would not have got me here you know like you have that clear vision it that's natur it's a natural thing to be like a blue
bell and if we secure that purple belt of everyone me and respect me as a pro belt and obedienti some of the purport now yes and brooded to the side note i don't know if you know
this but it if you know the feeling of wanting that purple bel really bad and i just want that bert pole belt and your skills from your persifor instructive am point don't match
for babet and promotion time comes along and you're okay here's a ten i give my brand you don't get that purple out bring you all saying in a be rosie known people the withem
straight up because they didn't get bit up promoted on the uncertain day and only as they they that's really sad it is it said from solvam for sure that's the sight not but are
you sad was near or where i work well it sad for them is like it if you here in that zone where you should be getting your purport at some time maybe this promotion may be next
promotion may be some other promotion and mans your dedicated giu and ages going to walk away cause you didn't get the bouche yes that's it that's rough and like i said and that
state of mind cantrall reaction a man true story and i've heard of people where they didn't get their belt and they may be sellin els did not may be straight up other people did
and it was there but in all her their own no man superman to the point where their vocal about a tap at gyaine get his belt publishing that so yet it it it'll jam you up dis that
home in set one thing are you know i would say to those people that might be thinking that way for my perspective in for many jogie instructors the the year our advancing and
you're getting promoted based on your potential not based on your skill evil to gallipoli guess her vicoletti be you might not have a lot of potential and so you know what a man
be guide you know you can't train these you know sixty eight years old and he's been training for a year and a half he's blown a lot of knowledge he's here all the time he can't
tap out any other blue belts were given as good because for a potential of him as a sixty eight year old man that never worked out before now he straining to get to do that guy at
one bout ye um now the fury go up you know back bel is a little bit more serious ah so's brown so pillbot i'm saying you're getting judge to get yourself and that the extreme
example by some one else by the way not by yourself he angus by instructor night yourself yet right that's right flyman and that's the end that's important thing in von book boor
to your point everything that we're talking about right now makes you just resort they make so i like it makes it it you'll make you mad and will make you frustrate in love you
and make it political and this guy got in i didn't know that's not for me i disown him like that stuff yes you know known't even like that stuff yet ah when you're to ready your
instructors on a promotional then keep training yes and and by the way also in your work skills when you are ready to get promoted you'll get promoted you and if you're not ready
you won't order not nothing of you won't you know you do to save that don't give frustrated don't get all crazy don't blame the die that did get promoted don't under my him no to
do keep kicking as in wait next time it'll be your turn you enjoy what you're doing master your craft sir don't let your craft become your master do i do say and i the i i yes i
have what happens right yeah you let the thing control you is it you control your thing instead of you mastering it is starting master you and get your head better but he does
make a good point and here's a thing as this is a mix of perspective so where um to catching of perspective where is like arena person working to master the craft any craft is
nice to have markers for accomplishment an engagement sister yet and you now what actually check back to him on my amani know i'm not normal yes i'm not normal if and all i need
is a rock and a hill yes that's right actions rightabout so so there are normal people that need to have like i want to go i want to see when i have a jackpine and that's okay yes
and that's why i guess what there are belts and gito and you can't get your i don't we don't really give a lot of strikes out in an victory like me jeff glover rainless ter crag
james i mean we will get a like vocational stripes you know for various reasons but most the time it's like o the garry for his next bout is goin to do yet and you shall
astruria's a toddle thing in my opinion like i've the stripes don't reflect much compared to what belt tronante less i mean yes for bankerville stripper i with misbelieved you say
it you know what a you know what to to degrade what you're saying and what banana you know when we do last stripes an a lot of different colored belts that he had rayanion the
point yes i grown as a dornington man you should like him sherley after all to me what he sang doesn't clash with what you're saying it might penitentiaries with her and in his
brain in his you know i don't know him that well but you know we go back and forth at he's a guide to synetic driven you know i come in to get right on it to get the angents also
that's what makes it sucessful then ye mean what he does and the craft that he has mastered very successful but the likes av those yes measurements yet eat met you to go off and
say look i just cross this this gold boom down we shall we are and sit with melting in me a little bit different just like with promotions at onoway fell so you you says it's nice
to have markers and youthing it is nice of course matter after when you got your black belt for you to say i don't care the fact that i got this lock belt i don't care about that
at all i don't know if i would believe that are no verledet hetebe correct i was oh so he is just a matter of war in writing for me what kind of a is me to like a well expecting
it at which should tell you something yes i wasn't in there like to night polibino no i i it showed up at the gym and train or whatever you and then all on it was special ceremony
time and then have to black belch that i was so for sure yet i was that put you know what funny is a attene like people people like or of who heard about it but people are gaining
herchenbach dog and is like an ah but i didn't tell any one i i wasn't like hey everyone i got my back ball a ithobal you don't want you know what don't take carried the most met
was my purple but yeah when i got my purple belt i was super pumped yet at that time who was a big deal in genoa perfoliata a buffoon to er i i won't even wait in revolt either no
brain the diary you an a e that thing yea and in a line with an i don't know because obviously i wasn't there at that time but i think it's always going to be like the old if you
got a peralta a big deal on you in a now it seems that desolated but because it's just so many people now you as you did to no purple welt parabola is a legitimate on your pupate
ye you will not lose in a fight to normal person not in my opinion i could you get caught in a punisher it but a normal you know you've got a very high high per cent a of winning
a fight against the moral person if you are probabilite ye a good for about a meaning not some one that just like got a papaveris ri right her in real prefererai mean a urbabele
you're rolling or when i rolled the upopteros a good row didnot like all i just guys just a pebble belt most blue belts you don't have to worry about much of anything yeah when
you're at a high level yes if ye in a man you're not worrying where you're all with most lovelight i'm worried when i rothery body the i saw on one no worried when tis jesting
yeah i i did get it had you not haughtily serenitatis that for but i'm not thingies actful to bobet but but realistically you know the chances are there's no possible way for them
to submit he harry small china that yet terebellae don't matter no bolitician your something from those grab your arms somewhere i ah yes that can no one you roothold he time yet
oh the what ye mean not like the let but yet like within the last year yessur at my arm out real far yet i had to go into level line defenses for sanitation i want to fall in any
surprised me that was the thing you were rolling and and all of a sudden and he's a pertater you have it says the class yet ample in this in the definitive him any how many give
him a nickname right now good now as he's your and on her hands by the he's better than all of ilkeston for you better than i took a perboyre a a a a if ye but none the less to
you at that exact your point though he go purple about you you as you're not you don't have many holes no messmet you things maybe some unaware got ye you inwisible if not a good
peat watch out but yet you don't pursue i know it how i asked me all the time when i get my brown but now i'm just getting into a love very one in a going care ye he's teodosio
i'll see to run papery one else maybe one day that in me about maybe they won't do it here we you crushing it yet and that's how i pellang out echoed charley no row at the
differer round but once you got tapped out by him to want it to faction what i don't yet win you get have out by a lower belt it's i guess what do you do to work spechul be able
to wear your belt for the oostanaula herself not you is your work in you do to do to move against me i'm genetheto to it yet like that the way it works no that he you know i might
try the defence but did you just you work this er i mean we just saw roger gracey had your grace against buchatch yes and people are a little bit redoutons again jitters yeah you
know get that choke on potentates or animal is savage is but did that get collar sunk in joke you got a haeremon e times wearing campion can you imagine his grip strangerhood yes
yes gipsies it is then he was really good but with and i'm not to go into thing but how is gone but he has the thing where this weird if you don't know the depths of jugeait he
has the feeling that he has all bases covered so not necessarily his game is it out haslenut speed you and it's not out strength you for sure but it's like he it's like he has
this whole base like all his bases in vigitation there all covered the so who'll do this thing that and he was trying to get them which i want you know we sashes really really
good ol grab bone sleeve with the opposite hand on rathe elbow pentagonal from california i don't pull and i'll just ride up on your back and there's nothing you can do it all you
little defensive here got to suffer no no brave and it's just this thing that it just it's a it's like this eventuality that you have no defense for that's out feels his whole
game if so yet i mean it's crazy that he was able to bring that same game of to someone like ochesius of these yeah he's the an ye it is just faciles none less back to the point
ididn't pursue the bolt that's not the perette pursuit is getting better the bell will come on the bell comes to it to to um brandenstein one the bolt comes that is nice and to me
when you get your belt from your instructor not from yourself ye when you get older elopers al but if he's the guy who is getting made li'terally got his key mad in because you
think you should have got your belt you're thinking you're getting your belt from yourself that's where you think you are in your head yes yes exactly right so so free i am ready
yeah i'm ready exaggeration up to you you can tap at all the buck belts it still not up to you to dunsany way when you get your purple belt brownblack dull yes that's bell i would
say this tables more times do not be if you are mabel you're rolling your king good you learning a lot when you get a perpotet probleme that's getting power you so much to be like
now my standard just mentally is higher now i'm a purple but now no minimum standard right now well i'll probe this full an in the game yes yes i sure is you can't really be super
casual and get a pole but right i leraysville not not yes i'm saying it is impowering and it is uthaton to have a lot of pride with that well i wouldn't say in powering i would
say it put you um it it it raises the bar on you ye i won't you wear afore you can't read you know you now you're like i can't hate me but otoyo might but i ain yes same thing to
me to mention raises the bar ye wouldn't you say it raises your standards yet rolling like my own stay base exactly as you say a light now are is race yes i got a represent yes
you aestus like he comes with the sense of pride yes it's a he is ideal and not get it also when you're a blue belt enjoy being a boil you an take more risk he can get tapped out
as a matter you ll let it flow he let a hundred per cent for ye will you get that belt yet beat the happy beat prideful both that on face both can you thank your train partners
also but don't just for so the bell man i'll get my latest next weston i'm a twenty four year old machinist i worked finshing do set up in order to ling most of the people i work
with him were careful for fifteen years the owner my company wants to make me the shop manager and honestly i'm not too tore up about it i feel like the older guise who been
around won't want to take scheduling and maimana turing advice from a young eye i have good relationships with all the the shop eyes but a worried about stepping into this role so
soon only been with a company for three years any advice okay your boss is in asking you to do this job if you're not ready for it that's that's number one and the fact that you
don't think you're ready as a good sign of said this before because i mean that your humble so you feel like that that's good as probably one of the reasons why you're doing well
in paint reasons that your boss thinks you ready for the job as good your humble so that's good but you also remember that being humble as to be balanced acome of leadership with
confidence and he with a little bit of aggression so there's a reason that you're getting asked to do this job in the post me you de step up now just because you become the
manager of the boss to i mean at you have to start passing bear on right it at me that you should remain humble that you should take imput from them that you can still take advice
from them as opposed to just giving them advice all those things are fine and i just canisius tother day young a construction business and a kid who were in the big meeting with a
with a bunch of leadership forming two engineers all in the same room bunch of great guys from a great company and he when a young engineers raised his hand and said you know i'm
young and i am going to be in charge of these guys you know not sure i'm comfortable with these guys are goin on for a bit longer what can i do to you know gain a respect an i
said okay who in this room knows more than that engineer back there about construction in all these saltonstones raised her and and i i who you know who's to think that this guy's
got the best that he risen all maingon down as it so this work you're doing with buddy i said now let me asking of the question to group group if this kid comes in and says i know
how to do this better than you listen to me and do it my way whose innate respect for a razor and now and coup if this young kit comes in and says hey amanene i've been educated
but i haven't been doing this for long can you give me some recommendations on how we do this so we can do the best job possible whose you have respect for every one ran there and
so there you have it you you you don't have to know everything as a leader no one expects ionathi especially as the young leader that's okay and actually when you admit that you
actually gained respect when you ask what people was in but you actually gave respect people get the paranoid feeling but if he don't know something there going to be seen weak so
sure so you can just step up to the physician still be humble still take advice not this doesn't mean that you're a pushover right that doesn't mean that you just listen to what
every one says you don't make any decisions no but actual music you show respect to their experience and wit comes time to make a decision you get the best important you make a
decision and you explain a decision and if you're to sign is wrong you admit it that is not wrong you push forward so that's gone you're getting use to be put in a position for a
reason so do i get some seems like a common one yet done in seven in the new roll over sure everyone else a question and i answered it again day or for every one's benefit glen my
own yet the hollowed from it every time i let the eat those i going only to open minded think advice yes yes yes she is enoying yes three days ago or our neighbor young girl on my
daughter's friends well years old it comes over their messenger their swimming it ah she grabs him my daughter's jumrood she's jumping room she does the cross you know you
jocrisse cross over he whatever as over a year so you does that a man is to jump rope neck and the day but i never really can eteretat none the less so she's jump open and jumping
or and i'm like he do that cross the cross over thing again she does it she's doing you now he's twelve years old he tomelitan ver could do that and she's like will you just got
to do it like this and tell it in like all cairo the rope and i try and the roads do small social grab my rope he got a jorum what told me daughter rabbit so he grabbed it and
this is his like a kind o like one of those pro speed ropes you know so it's like kano so if i make him a stake on the tropes going to hurt i davencott i was barefoot anse haensel
for sure under percent and then so i go for it in deracine dobro still pretty good right now still i haven't done it a while and she goes okaseri here at the top you know you you
cross o this ere you are a cross at the top of trialism foot painful in she's like no you do you as your line no required not an i never shall the pint to the kid through i turn
not to anyway so it's like okay boom fail us she's like no more at the top you know it'll it'll just whatever somiedo it and it took me four times for my fourth time i did it for
the first time i might a life by the wing the cross over with the painful speed ropes some you know some mental fortitude or the owner so hard a car i did it you see a sententious
have seen the look on her and my daughter's face there were like oh like alas you know like i just got my purple pelicans nonetheless so boom what are we have right there a
situation this what i took from it to weave situation a full grown athletic argile person learning to do something that's really not that easy obviously if i've never done it in
my life learning to do something that takes a fair monescillo a twelve year old girl in real time and you know what i did i to boot gave her the credit i said dangeau the best you
have heronhurst hayes exactly right so that's the thing to say oh you aeromotor story which was a long story he ahsayoo learn for anybody yes and when you do or in fort some one
give him the regent bullies so i said that portinaio brow but i'm just saying he was in fact for in it reminded me of that story anyway next weston jocko just chuck out podcast
twenty one with tim kennedy awsome raise the big time question though you intimated that cop who make controversial decision slash mistakes do so simply because they are not
trained well enough that big a question how much does the environment someone trains in impact decision making how much tactical decision makin is in eight verses learned could
killing me i ideology that that the insurgents by into be better than killing in sergeants or can they simply not be reasoned with at any level there have been terrorists who flee
the organizations and start new be fullied in other locations okay ayes sort of the first part question yes you train how you fight and the more you train the more you re program
your instincts so that's important you reprogram instincts when you train and you get better instincts so that's what you do and and now when hope make mistakes often times it's
because of their lack of training sometimes they make a mistake that is a mistake to get made you know it did you to mistake that all it is and they've been trained well they
still make mistake how mantell you the percentage of mistakes go down dramatically the more of that you train in the more realistically train and the more often you train you're
going to get better no doubt about it but that's like an instinct or training your instinct so late one thing this this idea that we could just attack an ideology of terrorists
and then have some of them converted that be a wonderful thing that you attack the ideology and then some of them become peaceful productive members of society and if we did i
like a fool corpres to try make this happen we might be able to confer what they we were really successful napoleone five or ten per cent a year okay sir that's great venefer that
the enemy is also out there converting people right probably at at least equal rate may be even a little bit higher so we still end up losing the fight cause it's a break even as
to lose as it to other doing what they do that to m and in the means i might water still gaining territory or causing terror so it's not a good situation now the example that i
used all the time obviously are not to germany and imperial japan both of those groups war like the current day g hates there were looking at a gothaland if we just tried to kill
the ideas with our ideas we would be speaking german right now because we would not we couldn't have changed their ideas fast enough and and by the way they were playing a
different game if we were playing a game of what shakeshaft enemies plain a different game so for instance if someone is trying to assault you and you're a pacific answer you
decide that you're going to try and convince them of the virtues of man violent through through debate and the sacrimental analysis in the use of various retrial devices and
that's what you're going to do and you might be the best the better in the end tirent none of those things are goin to stop that a salter from punching you in the face these plain
in different game and when she on the ground is goin t start kicking you he's a violent person now maybe if you were to sample slow in downlong enough to try and reason with him
he's not playing that game though he there to attack you there to stab you so your ideas aren't going to defeat his ideas you don't have the opportunity to do that he is not
playing debate so you have to know how to fight you have to understand violence and you have to be prepared to use it and if you can if you can debate and you can win at also
that's awesome but if it doesn't work you need he be prepared to use violence as it's needed and assisting on a larger scale obviously we we can do everything we can to try help
snuff out this extremist ideology let's prop up reformistes much as we can let's try and bring aconomy opportunities to ease impoverishin and deprived regions so that their less
likely to command the psychological grips of a descobara the same time that we're doing those pecudes lets attack their strongest of factories of hate what go after their centers
of gravity and let's snuff out and destroy those individuals that clery have no hope of reform and exist only to spread this cancer of hate and violence and terror and death and
if we attack on both those front hopefully one day where we can live in a world where we can solve problems not with physical force but with our intellectual power and that would
be great and unforseen that day will ever come because there's always going to be someone out there that's going to attack you regardless of your debating skill and that plection
ye long question here hemyer al question is is there a point where no longer physically realistic to train you giovinetto to day on the poncaser you just as any judiciary i'm a
factually i noticed we were going back to judith a want yearer him guessing at ereabout to go through it we turned em in a jeanette in time eh huh i'm a former competitive athlete
but have experienced various injuries that i still work through on a daily basis i really want to get into jigyoba only hesitations or my lingering injuries i don't know any one
who trains soon have any sense of how much is too much when it comes to physical imitation in injuries i'm sure you must have had injuries over the years that hindered your
training were you able to modify your training to come in eight ben although i have no experience i greatly respect the martial arts and the last thing that i would want to do is
wastest or or other students time by not being able to fully participate and or holding up the class i hope the question can benefit other pagasae who may be wondering the same
thing however to give you the idyllical in reference to the question of twenty six and the injuries of dealing with are is the last left me that ain't to work on daily to maintain
for in amoton on my third as man he had searched triteme whom felashas tree actually should he enter surgery seven times with that is thirty coalheaver third ligament in put in
there and yeasty replaced the leg men it doesn't grow back in it doesn't half they got to give you a cadaver and nevile you your own or your hat or your ye from your hat or have
shingoos and they put that in their order give you cabrone yes i had not had a cell back in the cave my own from my hamstrung i've had sadasiva sergei haven't this back to the
question i've had seven surgeries most we sent being a few moral as d automne and cadaver meniscus transplanted i'm told one more major injury to the joint and i'm looking a full
me replacement and at twenty six to lessuden dislocated several times torn ligament cartilage and labor don't plan on having the surgery any time soon and his and a history of
multiple come consience i power lift john met continere ularly but all cutting sports but all cutting sports are pretty much out of the question i think boating all for ye got you
now he says but all cutting sports or bartering cutting you you know when you caught on the field all cutting tatakuti left cutting it and pretty sure it were men agaye though he
met the aiting hour lest he came jag he can do me complacent cut gotcha jack neithaw i get gotch you oh sports or premchand question if you get suit isn't feasible de recommend
any other martial art that would better fit my situation just getting tired of only tretching to stay physically fit and would rather incorporate a beneficial skill into
mandarining for is this all in my head and i should stop worrying and just get after it thank you for any of ice you can offer pocussing you free i air i also am so i'm a kind
broke these outwashing breakest her so his first general question is there a point were no longer physically realistic tragediante answer that relies as but you can also thangyou
any wide variety of levels of intensity of very wide you could do you retical just go in learneth i you could just learn the technique and never actually roll the some one and if
you couldn't do anything at all that would in my opinion i would still do that eh just a distant understand it i would still do that ye would you agree sanded now what you half to
be watch out for is that you're going to want to try him yes you got on simeonite titathat you're goin to need want to do now you know like i said you can do it from just from
just learning the technique only to all the way to competing indgian like i said you got to watch out that you if you can only learn them and may be you can roll light may be you
can find you can roll with light people or you can roll with really good brown belts that are light and that that you tell you know a front hay i got injuries on my heretofore you
trip i just want to try the moves you better freak and keep your e going check though i which is what so hard because you're gontain i at do to inneraora out of this and then you
end up getting her i can't let that happen so don't let your eaglet in a way you might not want if you have all those serious and reseated like you you may not want a row with
anybody for a long time until you really truly understand gits so that's question of one yes you can learn it without much risk actually very limited restaur just looking to learn
the technique good learner with very limited resum now the next question have i had to dree over the ears and was i and modify my training to a comedian as ally the i've had ankle
you know sprang nangles high sprains all that stuff and with hot happens you see me training my bottom game a bunch because maronobea top i hurt my back one time really bad and i
couldn't do an old bat this is wells a blue belt gondebaud it guess we did bowscale my abogado good because i could not do it but ah i've had my ms e per cent ter get some gas at
no factor put on it i couldn't train for like a couple of weeks but then i put on one of those hinged metal braces strap that thing on tight cried ocote guard no cried you a
trying on someone no di have to be careful yes then i train absolutely ah my neck i had exurere and you know my neck now doesn't hurt you do i and my whole game is kind of based
fundamentally aronette my neck i don't do certain mose that i used to do that were that are high risk neckbones just right like ah yet there's just certain rose that i just know
do any more cause it's high rosmarine in the just into gapers yes you do go through things now occasionally like i just got through a a few weeks where i had three simultaneous
injuries and it was a broken knuckle ah some kind of a nee issue and i had a gabicote on my co my big toe i railed half the skin off oetean so i said to myself okay i'll just take
up my entire body and still train no dan said i not this is you know my body telling me how an injury you can get through to injuries okay wait a second but when i finally tore my
to open i was like okay maybe stanotte like at some time away from the map so i didn't train for a few weeks right trillings i have attained in a intense i can't remember ah but
that's three injury stacked on top one another and now i'm just thinking myself you got to be getting me let him all heal and that's what i did ah so that's that the next sort of
question was if judicious feasible directed any other martial art that would be better fit your situation i think you always bonario i think you learned a box um you can then
mieaou got to be careful i be careful in motivator es you got it i would say little or no sparring since you've had concussions ah and like his said in all those cases you got
under box you like one of a thing o a tryst man who's an be pretty easy not faring renamed it out don't vary have concussions you can't you got to keep your egoistic and then the
last part of question was or is this all in my head and i should just stop worrying and get after it look we all have got a no or limitation to get also now that sometimes you're
putting limitations on yourself that are too tight and you also got realize it sometime you can pusue too hard and overdo it end up in a really rough spot will you got a permanent
injury like you do right mind on my knee is not fully healed and so instead of doing nine rounds of duets um i did like four missteries yesterday five to day you know not and and
avoiding a couple possessions right you know that's what i'm doing yes that's okay i can't go in there i caveito right now now an do it and the more backplates big eagle like
somebody comes to a calera bit by a key i'll row with you can want to look like a war yakonwita i got an interne can all right now which i hate saying you i see my noo i defy you
saying that i despise it but i know that i you know i got a heap o o artery gie ye that's enough to remember gerry loud and ever yes so he had jammed up nanito t a ham you know
while um you know reintegration terah same membe uninterrogative been leanora malarier something ye so jammed up me but you know he ogetto so he comes in in what he'd always do is
he billali he grabbed me because i've known him long time women he ah he be like he lips he what he called hesitated you on a play meaning like were just rolling you know just
like how you said like i i you are how i warn operendi egante actly right yes he's really good for that do you adriano dean is not good for atmastham will literally say to me
hiesigen of very crossing smash me for for four minutes and thirty eight i can see and yes and we hear torture me yes so i did not do warm up roused yet in what do even go to
health may rosaefolius deemed at that on purpose all right or if like ingenio that you would we do that dan has two advantages number one i'm not warm and that means there's no
sweat yet so he's so there's there's like just freckened he and just secure positions and it sucks and and psychologically we both well and the other the other vans that he has
his he's fresh because the deeper we go into deep waters the better on de it because i'm in better condition than him debut he has has two advantages of the cave or he's heard
make house fell flooded tell not noting in a little thing or as we say in the twenty company year thing would be a man i did it and that's probably going to continue to you know
to you guys are biondetti in yesterday yet man in senater day happened you know he went taffeta about it he or the tantoor work case i would be the indian anyway jerry is really
good with that where this is a guy in discussion there are more less me wise in with your end ah i think you even bones knees at all you know so you can do that and you can get
like a good movement good rolling without that that impact you don't want every once in a while you got to turn up the head or whatever on a guy cause sat comes from eyes more
like this competitive kind of spirit of rolling to get to its kind o what it is so if you can avoid that you got actively avoided and still get that move men if you can find the
right person and you can go and there you can learn if cinget more or less life situation but you just can't be like kihat little fight in the fight yet onehalf that go a
gieranger for sure you can learn ye don't do take down if you got a niece situation don't do nothing done up said rations of going to be hard sergeant question and you don't this
last question it's it's not really a question while to eat it's what i got a lot o awesome emails and i get emails from people that have completely turned their lives around that
they've lost weight if they need to lose weight er they gained weight because they need to gain waiter they've gotten promoted or they become a better parent or the acome a better
spouse or to become a better kit yen i ideals from people that have quit there additions or the ordainer come their fear and tahati get letters and and packages and notes about
all this kind of stuff than its awesome i get i get people send me books for the podcast and in pictures and drawings in and at military member of beliani patches and coins from
your police departments of far departments and a military unit is sist but as in an i am i'm so thankful for all that feedback and it it drives me mad feedback that i did drive me
to or cared and keep pushing to do this to the best of my ability in trying it better at it but you know i i hear from people that have used the podcast and the discipline and in
the the mine said of looking at things that are problematic as being good i hear from people that have used those things to overcome you dark patches a in their lives no whether
it's depression or anxiety or even like fulledge despair and again when you hear from people that are turned that corner that's just incredibly rewarding to know that there is the
alderslea out there that are really changing for the better and turning their lives from negative the post it's unbelievably rewarding but i also get some other emails and i get
some other messages from people that haven't been able to dig out of that hole to overcome that that despair i i hear from people sometimes that feel versinobre nowhere else to go
fresno way out and they don't have any more options and they are considering taking the only way out that they conceal that is they want to take their own life and to anybody out
there that in that place too i don't really know what exactly to tell you but i can kind o tell you what i think i think no i think no i think don't save that last bullet for
yourself from sever yourself you walk and load that last bullet and you shoot it at your enemy in when you're out a bullet did out your knife and attack would that it if you lose
your knife you grab your enemy by the front and you keep fighting that you keep fighting and you keep biting and you keep fighting no matter what ye never quit never never quit
and if he do you like your life is in a place where you can't get any lower and you don't think you can find it any way out god cause it means the ultimate challenge is a heady
you it means you can only go up and it also means that things are going to be tough things are going to be tougher than anything you can imagine but that storm that you're in from
from your perspective it seems like that store is enveloping the whole world but i am telling you it is not the storm that yorinaga to see out of that storm it's hard to see past
aisees like the storm it seems like a storm is everything but the storm is not everything then i allow last for ever you can get out of the storm and you will get out of the storm
and win you get out you're going to see the sun camp but right now you're being tried your being forge your being tested by fire and by pain that's the task don't fail that as
don't fail the test don't give in don't i want don't have quite fion fight through the storm fight through the pain and come out the other side stronger and tougher and better a
fighter a survivor a winner victorious and free from that storm free from the darkness free and i think that's all i've got for to night so achochre speaking of being stronger and
being better he maybe you could tell us some ways to make ourselves a stronger and a little better yes and at the same time sir possibly support is potestate they want to yes
under toolington is support yourself well i think as even being your but i'm to sing as far as the message here that's up to you i but if you do want to what pursue whatever you
want to pursue your participation is required to make sennaka anyway so i'm in too on it so good fitness gear good stuff i just got some fall vic minerals doctor permanent less
they got some good stuff or any ah area of getting after it that you need to to or that you want supplementation with sir remember that jump rope storyteller her right that was an
unit jump rope a there's your na po speed rope i think it's called it's like brothers a lot of checking a logical advances in jump from her and her action were you know yes i
lemencholy with or for me yes he speciliater idea yet or in woe is me like a roturiere with a handle here and another and at the end that it this house like a swivel as he sang
and as a police system on it maybe it akoitis has made out of this stuff it's like yes good will good away yet that james also kettle bells solid solid heavy heavy as you nearly
right about in from my daughter the what's the is it the little monkey how her foot agonaoshi eighteen pounds or something that she can lift it up she can't swing it she wore in
using his own right she did lifting it derefor me be surprised man who'll kids than out owentocker form exactly right cause they're tryin to find a perfect balance i have no
choice they do off that lives on a fall on my son he lived unfold now hard walking it straight up the kind of earlier than my others like nine almost ten months i don't no more
right yeast alatahama you give me only a assailing a curit now harvestless so they say everyone is in is the best kidhood ye up at the radiant and by no means is that my message
here but the message is you watch him do a squat to take something out like dan that's good form so my daughter she's forced picks up the the kettle little holler and i'm like a
fist in like osilo now she should be picking it up she doesn't know what she is she picks up as his perfect form a dead less for my like when my youngest daughter was like six or
seven i had her dead lifting and i took it of patterned know and i hid porter the hard as was dead lifting and she like a pack o how old leg six or so i've hamando like double
body way ongdu it was with cattle bells and so you're not going that low so lacelle but easier so i thought yes i'll be dead lifting and my son was in their too thick while the
daughter we are all dis getting asserters and i know some ikanotes can do this they were escalading wait and go heavier neverending we get to like a pretty big way i forget what
it was it might have been but have been of the maybe the thirty two kilogram as on some literarified like right is she gets almost the top she gets the look on her face and like
like moscharr and then stand and she like started to tear up to dropsical it back down she started a tear up and she's in iggorote bag daddy and all like oh god i am the worst
father le ever and you have fine don't go the heavy kettle thus for a kid or heavy den lifting but are not ready for it yet i'll go on record treatise don't buy kettle bells for
you kids here program that you got torydoors an when they're four or you never months or whatever and wait to their sex to ye i bought the cattle bell because when i go out
thareabonts of that daughter dead lifting in like posted at one time people roll pompadoured in it till the reinhabit man you can't get crazy with that aim if i'm lifting my
kettle bells inter cool then the war will wands in you know all the stuff my nobis out there she's cresines watching the slike's basely me try let me try and she so she kept the
gleaner to pick up that were wolfwe sixty two files one of them eyether i don't let em wi don't push her to put a hat up not for the shell grab it and there i as she don't pick it
up now but do him for m and lispeth just wants to pay you like that the datolite so yourouks a little gift you know an you got you on corlouring that is i'm not vain nor now now
let love girl bill's girl your only four nine year on the paris not that it's for her to have her own little cell bell and beat it like a cohesive thing you know so i just like
shell exodus up but not really shoot a pull it routine reads the worry your kid i read it dan she sees me doing pull up she's like my turn i want to do pull up now when she's able
to get on her own program or be more in a position to facilitate a program imposed upon her and as the case may be not to rely bytheway she'll be familiar with pull up till now
the value polyps plus danes pull up slitely cool yet you know and she's going to be down though gentletie for life in regards to billups kettleful whatever so all i fuselage can
you get us oh the cateyes on it that cowasjee or the genoese none the less don't look i don't think actually do think that those designer kettlebelly those are kind of like the um
that's listen of the premonitary not so that runagates a wrong real or the now i'm okay with it they don't there a good year you like em they're not like the hard core just do can
in balls would handle you know i oropians i have yeh yeh be one i had the other not i say i got all those sittyton about they are cool if you walk into a jim you know you go to
the gym you wherever an there's a bunch of cattle bells right and you you look for certain weight and let's say there's the winwoods and then there's the regular ones which ones
you can me is this a serious questioner justitiaeque tion ordaineth what do you think i would use what wolf one's belly three that body lelewel none the less i think they're cool
and going to katerinhof flush jacotot's tree get it support yourself really and it's fortifications if you're into these books feeding read any books but i may linga few books to
a yet men in hackworth books it right mission dick winters books where he find those books well ultimately ye get from mensongier thing else oh but if you want to go through the
list this specific books for the epitetos outcome section on the top or manatee on the top boom cliff you to the pater with all the books by episode by the actual don't think i
put extremitee but not less like through there that's kind of jack up well actually it is as every the right or yes so that's the thing examonation are loomed in the poncasars
it's not going to be an alist of books covered in her hut cuscus the section is called books from the episodes natheless may be of lay on a will do extremeness he added be cool
dead be like layers because you wrote the book you wearing i fall refitted the audio book at night in a puteoli the thing anyway go to that be good jock maascot boom true whatever
book or books that you went click through there to get him we got you that's a good walinford ye cry good is ligamen if foot takes one one second two seconds and and big support
small action directions just seeing minerstand stand also good ways support is to subscribe that's on i eenspector goland all these other potestis providing platforms not to
mention you to if you like to videor met you no see what dalles like if you don't know already ahyouwaighs you give you what i look like which i'm not saint to look at me to look
at me comrades if you don't know what echo looks like go look on you to yeast as i cause it doesn't look like what you think he looks like apparently yet hardly evident i've known
him too long to understand the what he appears to be vis voice but apparently he doesn't sound like what he looks like so ye can my want a check that up ye i guess they don't
match my look in my voice there apparently not i let you i live in a world where we're judged on the content of her character and the contents of our hearts so i looked on a
matter quite as much as one might think but if you are listenest ed in seeing that could he to like it it subscribed it good way support plus we're going to we do add other videos
that are shorter in form we do have the weavers of pocahontas to our perusal ever long and echoes going to post a video of i think it the most i've laughed a captured on the new
history yell i was laughing at something that that was not in the park as we were recording wasn't in the portal i laughed you really are is prepotent pretty poast record sash
sure and that happened so i'm looking for to see that one lieut before this thing come tell any and helena that the good with support so great oother exec small exerts on their
anywhere from one minute to twelve minutes lizzie seetee too one of three minutes little blessings eighteen kind of stating one that thinks to wellman's axe i don't know i
retrench it in ideas it is but technically less make him three minutes ocythous ud put more effort into them and and and cut them down like the grew critical parts that's aething
kit take your connotation on the after donated all on one night i'll go think of regulated nootral he no one at sidonius think he'd be over better than you a little bit sweeting
yes and the long ones really prowit this stuff i'm just kind of whose the hat you had on other rude whatever you need ah you have a man but meletus good way to support so
harrogate the extremety minutes long yes abutment and into complete beauty a unoriental yet awaiting seladon also joys a store it's called jocatore cockletop come that's the
website someway on there there is what t shirts table mug some bumper stickers on their some patches these are dalcoath es you can interchange them their cool they wound up being
pretty cool there i agree the guise that one pole yeah representing water has ever sees yet so cool to um it it's it's weird cause you know like you always say like worsening in
this room you and sure we got some patches out there but to see him he contented on the atterson and he'll find it and not in stuff like that to see him like dang guys are willing
around straight up representing it's like it's weird it's it's wearing a good way there is also words yet so prosimiae false this is stuff on their ha just got the jocoseria
that's the website and he if you like what you see if you like in nitetis good way to support also on your jury we all no matter what acer say we all hit moments of weakness and
just like if you're going a mask bench i know i said this form a sad again because it holds true if you're gongo one replacement your back whatever on bench what about three neat
your means look i start to get a little bit more safe i think it might pay me but lisa to repacks you're gonna have some one there to spot you just in case you fully intend to get
those two raps fully but when you're pushing it it's wise to have the spot colander some reason maybe you didn't eat your you know a good whatever may be thinking to out on but
you could hit a little road left little moment of weakness ye have that spot their pomidoro got to that last inch in your upper whatever keeps you on your path is is the real
world very on of this is called psychologic warfare and what that is it's an album with tracks cockatrices and for any situation may find yourself in that you have a moment a
weakness like getting up in the morning or keeping your work out when you intended to work out or slacking on your diet jacobi there with a track that i hope you through it called
psychologic or fare jacquiline to a search i do amazonic other emp three providing what he called it outlet lay outlet sea to do to re gion cool also you know we've got we got
kind of a kind of a big announcement coming at what you ever we had any big announcements right a outofitnow at i'm not a big announcement kind o guy where i plus so i guess i'm
not going to do this all thing with the big enough of it i will i will say that's bisiou disill say to hold back but the litters going on after many months of do diligence and
conversations and relationship building and growing understanding we are actually joining forces with a company called origin origin presiding to itu in man now this actually
occurred believe it or not due to this potestis podcast i was doing a face book live i said something about this was montigo said something about origin they you on agiotage from
origin they make em in america there well crafted special material woven up in maine there no checkout and ceram shan no serampore course they do she motivated got after it and
put me in touch with this guy berber tusdy founder and owner of origin and you know i knew about a matitation among the the face belicose i've cause i had seen him and i had known
that like a a like a possessed psychopath he wanted makes america who he went and found loomed material with that all that dog and he and a thing is is he was basically alone with
his team on his quest to make this happen but the cold thing is he's not alone any more he has a partner now in fact his partners now me you and and really all of us to help out
to get in the game with what weird doing now and and to say no origin like i said it's not some brand that's throwing some graphics on to a tesher right that's not wot i was going
on there you have a legitimate movement for lack of a better word of a guide that is up there and what we're trying to do is re breed we birth manufacturing in america so that's
it started with geese um that's definitely a huge focus but we're going to make everything we're going to build the best cure in the world not just forget but for everything you
do in life were going to make the best gear for being on the war path that's all really do so when i come out with bouchotte's that's the big now slit that was in a comitat made
it so he etonnement me a check out origin men dot com for geese for rascar from whatever else you might need and if you want to see what this is all about by the way if you want
to see what we're going to do come up to the camp that were happened to theseia up in maine echoes going to be there i'm going to be there bungowawen to be there were going to be
getting the after it or cruising or both aitars twenty through twenty seventh two sessions are going to be there old acaena going to be there but last day of the first session in
the first day of the second session so that's what we're going to be up there and people been asking what level if you gittite you can be any love if you never got it before
that's go come intell give me the base i won't give you the basic that thing that echoes dardurr um but it's so you never done it come lord it'll be the best interrupting over in
to get your life and quite frankly this come and train emerson for either four days or seven days to go way to start learning a language getting mercein and and by the way also if
you are back out or brown out or purple boat and you want to come up in his train hard core the bunch o god does come on up so that's that also this is cool on the twenty third of
august on the middle that camp there is we are opening opening a new factory twenty thousand square feet of american manufacturing in farmington maine ah come on is actually open
to the public so come on a hang out were going to be there you know dowhead cruising checking now and it's going to be labristoma in my mind sir this merging of baden that as
nissr coming to fruition after many months behind the scenes um so ye come and join us on that day the twenty third even if you're not the camp come on up ah you know not or in
have to camp jack a white tea he it were plentiful at you if you if you're not going to camp in you want talk away he you can go get it on him as on if you are if you're sick and
tired of dead lifting less than a thousand pounds order some immediately i also wait the warrior kid and thank you for all this awesome feedback that everyone's been given me of
kids getting stronger and faster and smarter and better that's awesome so if you have a kid or you know what kid get him or hunt this book and by way if you're wondering wealth or
your kiss that for girls believe me what was your difficolta enter help tani des ozette so they need it we all need it so get one of four yourself is as well there's lessons for
everybody in their frounced jack o a the other one got another book coming out dispirited for old manuel now if you want a field good book if you want a book that's gonna fill you
the bunch of hannises don't get this book but is not for you there's book is real this book is going to hit you hard and if you don't want to get hit hard been done order it if
you want to be cattle don't get this book if you want to be i do don't get this book but if you want the truth and if you want to get stronger faster smarter and better than yes
go ad nord of this book order it from our local book store go into them and say ah no card of his book and when you did it in ten you just put it in the get after it set for me so
i can find it so this pinacles riom field manuel order it all line barns and nobles amazon dear local book store put the word out of course you can also get extreme ownership
ownership is a key word there and i recommend you on it get that book only yourself and get it your team this copies is well said you can go out and annihilate your end in me oh
your competitor whoever poverino weatherstone front leadership consulting no one else can do what we do and i'm saying that right now and do resisting that now it's goin t we've
been doing it long enough an i've seen what other people a due from a leadership perspective than consulting no one as can do we do so if you need leadership all line men say your
team and when you got me late j p dave taruman don't book as through a speakers agent don't poke us through our online book agent go to ashenton darkamo email in fell and
alatamacha and finding the master let ex master september fourteenth and fifteenth in sand diego this is kind of crazy we've already sold more than half the tickets so the
absoluteness like its old out the first time in ten diego just like its old on new york city just like it sold out in austin texas don't get left out in the cold get registered
extremism come and come and get it and while you waiting for the emersion camp while you're waiting for the master were not hard to find cause were rolling on the into webs kind
of heart actelly exter heard some her on tender the instigate and that face he bullies at goethals in i am at jocolino finally thanks to every one that makes this pot cast
possible first and foremost or military okeus free tokrie and grow and live the way we want to live thank you all for old in a line and thanks also to police want forcement fire
fighters paramedics and other first responder thank you all for making this pocasse by keeping us safe here on the home front of fact you all's well and finally to every one else
out there whether you're going through good times or bad times whether your winning the game or your making a comeback whether you're building a house or a road or a bridge or a
piece of software whether you're assembling a car or a sembling a meeting or if you're in a diner pouring a cup of coffee for some one that about the go out of poor concrete
whether you're sowing seed in a field for sowing the stitches into a gee no matter what you're doing and what you come up against fight harder do it with everything you've got and
no matter what never quit and always always keep getting after it so until next time this is echo and jocko out
