this is jacopo cast number eighty seven with a charles and me jock a willing good evening echo good evening i'd been away from infantry and from the army i grown up in for far too
long walking through the gates of calm and barracks was stepping into the wealth of past the old army had not died after all the eight tenth was military perfection men stepped
smartly across metical ously kept grounds starched uniforms blue infantry scarves dazzling shine brass and boots snappy salute and cheerful good afternoon sirs marked my journey
to the cue where i'd sign in the spirit of this fine unit was already infecting me that stifling windless day the rag weed pollen that blew in from adjacent fields covering the
camp and immediately activating my hay fever the run down boring camp itself none of it mattered as inwardly i was transported to an island away sis untouched by turbulence and it
was all things to one man the battle group commanding officer who would for ever be mine model mentor and friend colonel glover as john's was the finest senor infantry commander
i'd ever seen or ever would see again we share a mutual abiding respect almost from the moment we met he was my kind of soldier and i was his he was a warrior patens aid before
worldward then during the war hit the beaches of normandy as part of the twenty ninth division and fought from those bloody shores all the way across europe until victory was
achieved as a battalion commanding officer he headed the task force that captured the critical french town of saint low in corea he dserted as executive officer than regimental
commander in my own fortieth division his reputation there was awesome one story that made its way through the division was that a wild new excel it come into the two to force got
in down on his belly in the mud to check the units machine guns field of fire and promptly moved two thirds of the machine gun bunkers that had sat there for two years later when
he took over his commanding all her that to two twenty fourth and the unit moved to a new sector he outposted a spur about two hundred yards in front of one of his companies to
the north koreans couldn't do it first but this move was considered seizing ground and against that no wind rules of the war and soon the ex core commanding general flew down the
john's position to discuss the matter with him after examining the situation general white told him he could keep the spur but was never to advance again even his outpost line
without express permission from care his blue eyes sparkled like those of a wise and truly tested man who long since realized that humor could be found in just about anything he
had seen his share of horror his cheeks were rosy and the dueling scar that crossed one of them in no way detracted from his gent rugged yet gentle old soldier face maybe the scar
even in handed it i don't know but it sure gave him more character than provided a good yarn to boot in any event colonel glover asked johns was a forty nine year old stood
colonel johns was a basic man and a tonal soldier he taught and insisted that his company commanders teach things like terrain appreciation the knowledge of which was a basic tool
of a soldier's trade to be of a look at a piece of ground and appreciate the slightest differences in the com tore to notice how the ground unfolds and be able to think their
cover re there cover the one essential providing protection from direct enemy fire to recognize a stream line of gully or treat area as an avenue of approach through which a
eunuch could move unseen to understand and identify the best ground from which to launch or repel an attack shoot scoot and communicate the morning battle drill began with fire
and neuve one man firing while his body moved a fire team moving while its counterpart fired colonel john's likened it to a fighter's bobbing weaving in jabbing we kept the
mythical enemy pin down while we jaberwock on his position that's covered moved by the way the call was right there with us to set the example and we did it until we got it right
we end up black and blue running hating the ground and rolling into firing position with full field of quipment on is not without pain but no one bitched because john again and
again reinforced the simple equation the clerk are you get to the ground and you get your weapon opposition the sooner you but be delivering effective fire on the enemy and the
longer you'll stay alive still this true ism was just one part of the overalls rive to better your best philosophy that characterized though first ye of the king under coal john's
and deputy commanding off ceraunus's words it was our policy to encourage excellence among the soldiers particularly in dayanand unarmed combat shooting and total physical fitness
this is what really makes a soldier if he mass masters these subjects he'll fight for my experience in corea i could not have agreed more so that's a little opener from a book
called the ballface my favorite book by tretyakov and he's talking about a guide that was his commander in the early nineteen sixties ackrit had got now of the army in the
comeback in after a couple of years speaks he realized civily in life was not fund sir he came back in and he got stationed in germany and this guy by the name of colonel gloveson
who by the way he did actacked is dedicate he dedicates the book to an ptomenites soldiers that he worked with one way but the glover john he says dedicates his book to glover
john who showed us how to lead so glover john's outstanding combat leader and luckily we can all one from glover john's not only from what he passes few hackworth in haward book
ralf his own book gloveresses own buck called the clay pigeons of saint low about his port from normandy and across france let hackworth just reference now tentereng when we got
this book the quay pigeons a saint low he he writes the book in the third person and he says that it was is easier for him to write it that way so another word his hearsay i did
this an eye that he says major johns did this and major dog johnson's into but with interesting as he said that wanter asonis he was able to do in the pontorson that he did that
was because the guy that was commanding and combat was to be tinoco at was different from his normal so right and we have this combat johns to malibran of wash out the leading
things and he had normal john that was to where he lived his normal life but it was easier for him to right and more natural for an aright about dis major john's got in the third
person the allikoom it gives me ability kinda detached from it and explain what was going on sir when you hear it it's all about major john instead of being about me and about i
but it's it's him and even though threten from the third person it is absolutely a first person account from a battalion commander in combat close intense combat and let's pick en
up going to the book the clay pigeons of saint lo here we go sharp balistics cracks pounded as ear drums so rapidly they seemed like an impossibly prolonged rifle shot he is
instantly paralyzed with overwhelming fright the radio operator jimmy slump forward at his feet another man stumbled past a fallen to the ditch ahead than new comb cleared the
eight foot hedge row apparently with one jump but the major was too shocked to move his stomach knotted itself into a tight ball a jamdani his pounding heart while his breath
stopped completely for an instant then came in jerky gasps the hair on his head felt as if it were rising like the hair on the cat's back his skin prickled all over but the most
awful thing was the cold empty feeling in his guts the burst of german machine gun fire lasted only seconds but it seemed like a lifetime before he could reach up and snatch her
grenade from his pistol belt he never heard a bullet crack by inches from his head he didn't know they sounded like that he thought there was a german with a bristol behind the
nearest tree on top of a hedgerow he grabbed the pin on the grenade but before he could throw it something made him stop and yell anybody on the other side he got quick answer how
yes before he could lower his arm the blast of a rifle right in his lap made him flinch he squirmed back even closer against the hedge as martin and grimsel went into action
they'd been at the front all the leven days since a continuous line had been established in normandy the crack of bullets was nothing new to them almost side by side lying flat in
the ditch they fired my poticary across him and over jimmy's head mechanically he checked the pin in the grenade then still a little dazed hooked it back on to his belt harness he
looked at the man who fallen the ditch and now was trying to weakly push himself up it was lieutenant saddler his face already greenish gray with shock he had been hit five or six
times in the head chest then both arms major johns knew instinctively that saved was as good as dead he called to him to lie still and take it easy but the charlie company
commander was already beyond hearing john felt that he ought to do something constructive something to get their minds off the tragedy that had just struck but it was without
inspiration merely know ay you guys yelled grimsel let's scram out of here that rope commander out of the days he had been in ever since the deafening burst of enemy fire perhaps
two minutes before he leaned forward and shook jimmy's shoulder come on jim it's all over now you can get up maimie didn't move major john's shook him again then he saw blood
oozing slowly thickly brightly across his own shoe gently he pulled a jimmy's far shoulder a neat clean little bullet holes in the boy's helmet came into view so the major knew
that jimmy was dead something impelled him to pull jimmy over until he could look into his face the eyes were closed and an odd little half smile made jimmy look as if he were
asleep dreaming pleasant dreams slowly the major lowered him back to the ground and for a fleeting instant watch jimmy's life blood continued to flow across his shoe so that is
really his first experience in combat and even see obviously it's it's held the wake up come and the whole book the whole book is like this this is an incredible book of the way
he describes the battles and how their lay out and would awake lay out his own fast and what's going on it's just it's it's as an outstanding book as one of these books were as i
i had to consciously say to myself okay jacko you cannot read this whole book on the bad gas we need to you know people need to read it for themselves but the look is the
description came that like that that opening is phenomenal so let's go back to the book now where that first battles over and he's having some thoughts he regaled back the book as
he walked he couldn't keep his thoughts away from the hot body been in a few minutes before and the lessons he learned so quickly but at such a price in little more than an hour
of his first fight he lost two company commanders to radio operators and three other men besides just escaping death himself as he thought about the crack of those machine gun
bullets his stomach began to storm again until by a conscious effort he forced it to behave he couldn't understand why he hadn't been hit to jimmy's head had been not more than
two feet from his own new come in the front and saber directly behind him had been head the whole burst must have missed him by scant inches he sided and he very seriously thank
god for his safety at the same time he promised never again to risk the lives of others if he could avoid it it was a bitter lesson repeated every time the eyes of his mind
focused on jimmy's bright blood oozing over his shoe or on sadler sudden death he looked down at the shoe shuddered at the still red stain and tried to scoff it off on the grass
on his way to the regimental command post the major passed a knocked out sherman take what distinguished this smoking brown hole from others he had seen that day was the single
blackened claw like hand and forearm that was thrust out of the turk turret toward the sky the fingers were separate and more than half curled like the talons of a striking eagle
but his hand was not striking it seemed rather to be calling down an imprecation on the fate that had let it die there in agony the now he gets to the regimental commander well
boomed the regimental commander what's going on if just been trying to get to you john saluted it as he answered sir were stuck at the second hedgerow and i had to use my reserve
to protect my flanks it doesn't look as if we'll get to the fort to day unless we have better luck later have many cattle ties i don't know about the company's yet because i
haven't had any reports from them except the yells about their flanks and counter at axe but now was wounded early savor is dead and of lost two operators besides through other
men out of my own see p group he was still too full of his experience not to want to tell about it the colonel listened sympathetically well he said when the major was through
we've got to keep going regardless division wants to get the forge to night so yes you said that rough day first day a combat desarters still going and it you know one of the
things i in that opening paragraph that i pointed out was you could see his reaction when that first gun fight broke out his reaction was sort of overwhelming overwhelmed by the
whole senario but his two guys tand were happened as in you now he talks about this in the book but he had gone on the normandy but he wasn't in charge of of the talian yet he
sort of a back with the regimental command and then one of the time commanders was out of the fight and half forgittin crater was killed or wounded but he went in took this
potamides job so he wasn't on the real front lines until they were starting to push through france a little bit that it was only a matter of days but these i will guess was eleven
days cause he's garde said that these other guys had been on the front lines for eleven days so these guys it been eleven days but guess what their day arkinson at boom there in
there there in the mode the returning fire and you could see the returning fire really cut so close that it scared him yes and i notson of the things that you know a lot of times
i talk about the same unition and training with simonson and how often it isn't an up to totally true and i love training with aminition and it really is very beneficial for
tactical skill level but you also absolutely after do live fire and the reason after i fire i mean as a bunch of reason you have to do it you know you have to learn to shoot real
bullets and hit real targets or with your bullets but also guns are loud and you need to condition yourself to be used to having a a mark forty eight machine gone four inches
mayenobe sixty inches from your head and your body is dump and round down range and you have to be able to think during that and not be overwhelmed by it ye the the ciminian
etonensi how what's the difference in loudness oudinot even comparable so is it is so sad even really like a gun shot no it's not like a good alike knock on parables the noises
not comparable is a noise is less than a cap gun cut all steele an air softening as loud and i'm more forty eight machine gun is here of really enough farandole shock waves yeah i
elongation shock that you get little and so that's why we that's why it is so important to train life fire and is also important to be comfortable not only yourself shooting in
close proximity with other people but also them shooting your you cause you've got to trust the guys it around you now there's standard operating procedure that there things that
you don't do that keep it safe but it still the ammians eyases a bag somebody makes a really bad mistake they can walk in your field of fire you know and so you have to be heads
up but you still at to take shots with people that really goes to you yes and a fire fit by the way will yet in a firefight but if you haven't done it during training your first
your first minute and a fire fight is going to be just a just overwhelmingly enemy fire you to be overwhelmed by yeourn gush shotover ianthine getting hip by brass and in just it
hurts hierathen the the lynx coming out of a marked forty eight or like little weapons sellabrated all eye we had a one of urmsing was a a left and he picked up an sertenete he
picked up michiganer inn left hand it and that dumpsters basically ritor by septennates on his honest right arm that looked like somebody beat him with a with a baseball bat in
the arm that's sarama forty eight ejector poured dustiest play around so again going back to situation he's in red owes he's at all these casualties and they're like the major
side the up up regardless we got to keep going which is which is the way war actually is it so that night an he has a little company little huddle with the company manderson and
you know just a just a kind of spell this out if you're wondering what this is all about so he's got the heseltine commander so an f is actually got this renown the book but at
the time come a battalion in nineteen forty four was about nine hundred guys nine hundred men twenty doisters you got three companies the three companies are broken out in a three
putans each one of those patonee one of the companies has accompanied mander used a captain and so that's what he's talking about so he said that those are your cunious and fifty
men fighting at women are these companies with three protons in a mafit people each about and it's weird because people always think to the military is everything is perfectly
started but actually this this changes all the time not based on but it abiston your mission you know sometimes you might have a petunia eats get postal company that short a
people so there's no there's no consistent just all the time number misery the actual number that they were up to have an in a company at this time was each rifle company was made
up of six officers and a hundred and eighty six men that's what they are supposed to have in them now you're in find out real quick that they rarely have even close to a hundred
but that's what are supposed to have so this point he's bringing in these three company commanders to talked them about in a plan and also to get a deep reef on on what happened
during the day and what the pain to had he regumac to book he thought a moment and this is this is a one of the company manners named lieutenant ryan and he talked and he says he
thought a moment and then added we might make it across the road if we pour a lot of smoke and mortars into him and then rush him but it'll take but but it's getting off we laid
to be beating around in this kind of country so traitour how to minford and leave in it rinthia kind of lieutenants suggesting let mortal room put a bunch of smoke out and then we
can move but gasates getting late and if we're run around once a good dark it's goin to get scary reinstated and looked at jenny it was kenny's turn and kenyon ind out he is a
legate bad ass sir i only had a few minutes to look things over before wence along and bottle back here to see you but that or trades terrible place no cover anywhere machine guns
covering every inch of it we lost a lot of men in there the first time he paused but we'll do the best we can well rufino we're going ahead the major stated flatly by the way
potentest took over for for one of the company commanders that had been a wounded or killed now they start pushing and all of a sudden there pushing forward at intanga i have to
skip through this book and i'm trying to high light the lear ships snares or the things that reveal the way human beings react in the hard situations but when you read this book
yourself you can really follow the tactical decision making process and also how the battle went and what happened obviously i can't go through the whole thing right now but at
this point bade started pressing and all of a sudden he sees guides are running away running so you know as the company commander and he talks about this were he positions himself
and obviously doesn't persisted himself right on the front with the toosese back a little bit in this point guy starless dusun ing back towards him at first he thinks it might be
germans that no it's americans in his guise and here we go back to the book that major got through feet he started a crouching run to the left he had nearly reached the end of the
field when four five men yelling don't shoot don't shoot piled over the hedgerow that separated charlie in baker companies he stopped carbineer as he loaded his gun wondering what
this was all about a figure step out from the hedgerow and voiced the same question what's going on here anyway just what's this all about it was lieutenant i perion arms spread
wide detect the running men carbine slung over a soldier shoulder the picture of calm he caught the leading man by his jacket which piled the others up in a tight little knot the
man pant panted crowds are to perseived us run a perion glanced over the man's shoulder unmoved well now i don't see any crowds just look the men looked back all they could see
were several charley companiment standing quietly rifles ready the leader of the runaways relaxed then shuddered violently i perion went on i don't think there's any crowd chasing
you at all let us go see about this the man tried to pull away from him but there were he cried there are high tell you they came right over the hedge on shot down right down the
whole squad they got the sergeant and all the rest were the only ones left they nearly got me look he poked a finger through a hole in his jacket but i perion unimpressed moving
the direction of baker company even as the man protested dragging him along while the others followed meekly well i peering went on let's just go see what captain went will has to
say about the all this he called softly to the men guarding the company flank seening no sir the answer came back quickly and calmly the more the observer in his little group of
panic stricken men disappeared over the head drop the major knew he had just seen a wonderful example of leadership at its very finest i perion quickly calmly and efficiently had
stopped what could have been a rout so one leader steps out and really was doing leaving about it he's detached because he wasn't in that situation where jane sogerman's came over
and obviously shot at a more close range tilleul guys you know wot of would have wounded this soldier who got shot through his jacket but he just gippings the guide to tache look
was known there came down let's go have a look let's take a step back and that kind of calmness prevented every one because creating the overaction right well go the other excuse
people running in that's what happens you can do running he sat rochetta was very interesting in the in the shires member some of those police shootings were i remember there's
one in new york city where something like fifty seven rounds were fired at somebody that was on arm and every one's going wide why was everyone shooting and i'll tell you what
happens is you know for some reason they think if you think somebody's has a weapon or a suspectors going to do something bad and now you've got five or six people that are
holding a gun on well when one's person search shooting when people are not the tached and when people are caught up in the moment every arch potager and it's uh the is it can be
really devastating can be really devastating ye so i went but when people are used to that kind of stress and their calm and he tasted one person takes a shop you you be actually
instead of jest firing yourself you actually assess on say okay what is you shooting at i need to get cover so there is that's why that training is so important to get people at a
high stress level and still think through things and still be detached the stress is going to be there put in a box monitor it don't get in it you know because you are a made bad
toison you might not make any disoue my just go off your actions which i so i am sitting here i done people are shooting ominous you do yet that's not a man it's like a you say
when you're not trained you don't have experienced in those tights a situation like a your the shooting example yes it's it's all these things where you see in judithe you start
six exact lily the exact same thing were so in a truding situation one that shoots you hear the gun fire basically your brain is says okay it's on you it's a hundred percent let's
go a full speed hundred per cent it's on you can't like gun shots are being fired it not not on do you got to go underset so in judithe you first start you know how they go the
guys just going full speed the whole time there geroostered one you can't move here you can't your completely trap rather not so much on us sairly but you're trapped i get going
crazy you know he got just cause you don't know me in on it ekeinon if not on yes so when you are jeanie though you're fat you're talking about is an individual individual moment
what i'm talking about is group it's a goop think scenario yet were you know dislike it happens when there is a a a gun shot and every one at a running people do but the people
the background don't even know what the running got say a people running at a running yea yea yea well you imagine how am to are you think here's a bad guy in a dark alley and
your poor there with four your police partners or your or your military partners you're looking down now yetin there's a insurgent there and all sudden round cracks off here
you're lucky and there's a there's a situation that happened with her where there was iraida that had an accidental discharge you know that is like we like feet was laseun and
lave solaceful tone was taken out of building and i was actually outside the building yokes we were taking on mottled the buildings but they were in one building and all a sudden
a couple rounds get shot off and i you what was actually i'm pretty sure that it was a presidental the whole cast of characters on presenes at like the head of the train or close
to the front of the train then inside that they were inside this building rounds get fired and andreas thinking oki think i think i remember and the pulteney well were going to
grenades were in tofana a natural cause for shooting at us and it was a gay another head of guy a couple feet back that new where the gun fire came from the work came from wasn't
a racster friendly eailier had cracked off rounds and i then accidentally and you know luckily that that guy was a great guy of really had up godegrand him almost tillamook the
shit out of em right there but can you imagine you're clearing house where there is suspected and surgeon in i also round her fine well now you need but this is the discipline ye
in and the guys new okay the guides in all freak out a sort of shooting the guys were you know semitism body grabbed the person that shot and that was a d o k rapid back down
window everyone calm you know what i mean so there is the difference between guarantying ely well and when you haven't been trough the country and also luckily that was that
didn't happen alette second night of deployment we were you know further into report were guys had been through as as as like we just talk about gasgacha been through plenty of
fire fights at the one to they want freak donandi was gone shops they were like okay wait a second whereas a gonostoma from but that could have gone really really nasty so trained
trained realistically all right at this point and in also just like some of the other books howe read about barbaro where we've got ye you know it's basically a movement it's
basically continually moving trying to take down targets try to move forward trying to get free france trying to get to berlin that's that's the situation and the same thing here
these guys this bespitten this regiment and basically the the whole task forces trying to move from from city to city or town to town through france and at wars going on here so
it's it's a continual series of attack diggin a tack dig in attackin and you know you can tell from the title of buck what their going for is this this final you know some city of
saint lo and france so at this point there's a tacket eye were getting ready to go on and he turningue out a wide got canceled and he saw contorted commander then he says i think
i think you got farther from where you started than any one else sirteenth dentalina to john's orbetello went further than anyone else back to book in fact i believe that's why
division canceleer attack if you'd made the forge you would have been weight on a limb and stood a chance of being caught off major johns elated at their comparative success was
thankful that he had not renewed the attack and perhaps made another five hundred or thousand yards they would have been out front like clay pigeons for any one to knock down
there was the first time he had seen a practical application of what was popularly known as the big picture supposedly concocted for edification of high brass and warhorne yet
sufficiently vague to cover certain amount of error on the ground so there is not a wonder call that out is he is admitting that from his perspective like wire you stopping my
attack and at this point they had the gone bogdan then they were a goin and they got back down and now they were ready to go and they get hold sophoulis first reaction and what
withies topping we watched out the momentum row and then he finds out that from the big picture the reason you're not attacking his cause you're too far out ahead every one if you
get gone further you might git surrounded and caught off now this is a situation where understanding why susy is so helpful and especially if you push that all the way down to the
front line troops and the front my beatership as other thinkin he we finely made some some offense in progress and weendow can really take it to the enemy and ootanga so stop
wot's going on the head quarters stupid they don't get it they don't understand actually they do understand but they need do better job of explaining wi sowthistle the people know
all right moving on to this next section here he is checking out the kind of his line now that there now that they're done in a little bit he'd gone to regiment at you now through
easy forget that these guys and i talk about this bit but the the best type of communications that they have is when they actually run a wire but ten different between regiment
between battalions between the companies they they try n run to wires because the radio are fairly temperamental a man whether they work on out to us rasbach but the primary
communication is is running a wire and he had just gone back to regiment to me face to face because me say meministis very important and you know he just comes back up and he asks
one of the company marachall think it was his is oboe new come he says he will anyone in new come is obsolete says no everything's quiet as a church the sthreets the betancour in
the starlight and grin as he went on now major you're going have to concern yourself with everything up here you just leave the details to us where you still looking after them so
little bit of defenseless command dornau boss we we we got this writ be all right now next day rolls around and here we go back to the book around ten hundred the german shell the
battalion have we but they didn't follow up follow the superant by eleven hundred the wounded at all benefactorto and the wire lines had been relaid to the regiment the major
instructed grimsel to collect all five company commanders and meeting the soon as possible at the cross roads of the edge of the woods from which they had first attacked it was
only a little way from the regimental command post to the edge of the woods he got their well before the others when they came up a few minutes later he no he missed newcome
before he caught the meaning of their oddman ner grimsel set face sort of giving him a hint as the astute forward saluted very stiffly and said with visible effort to keep his
emotions under control sir i must report that captain newcome is dead the others looked silently at the ground and tears began to stream down the gentle grim selves face the news
struck for major with the force of a physical blow of all the fine men he had met and taken command of the italian newcome had been one of the very best he was quick willing and
intelligent wise far beyond his twenty four twenty five years he also stared at the ground for a moment and then asked quietly how do it happen ryan spoke up same sniper same
place is the dock so a docken killed earlier by a sniper one of my men worn new to stay out of that gap in the hedge row but he took the steel part of his helmet off and sat down
on it right square in the gap itself the sergeant who thought the captain must have gone nuts all the sudden was coming after him to drag him away but too late the sniper got him
right in the temple john felt numbardee to dwell on his sorrow wouldn't help nodding solemnly he leveled his finger at captain went you are now lagooned three but you will retain
command of your company until we complete the move into these woods when i equally grave replied yes sir i have a little news to lieutenant with out half his helmet knocked off by
a bird gun during all that shooting a while ago he caught either a part of his helmet or some of the slugs in his arm he's out but he isn't her baby he'll be back major john
through never met chadwick merely nodded again it didn't hurt so much when he didn't know the man furthermore a wound regardless of its severity lackteeal finality of death
chattee pory lost men one less officer whereas new comes death left a hole in his heart although he knew weddell be good as three two new come in the fore shore daisy had known
him had become a friend grim so immoved a little way from the others he was leaning against a tree his head down in the cure of his arms sobs shaking his body he a new come and
become close friends for years and it worked together daily the major spoke to captain menser the headquarters company commander sedelenda grimson's pulled off somewhere where
it's quiet and given a chance to lie down and get some rest if he objected telling it in order on one moon any more to day men sir small and dapper saluted sharply yes sir i'll
look after george all right these guys are takin casualties had just an incredible amount and you know you see a couple of things in here that we've heard before you know you see
the major realizing that that grimsel these done he need break and you know he says get off the line getting somewhere you can take a break and you also see these guys filling
billets and just getting promoted you know battle field promoted the guy was a wonder compeador wendell he becomes the hecomede operations of erbout spot it's i it's really you
can see why this book was an hapworth so now there the whole upperville and he regumac to book ten days drag by all the italian sat in boy debrett if the days were sometimes dull
they were rarely on eventful men were wounded or killed nearly every day by artillery morteros or the fire from self propitiated eighty eight that could move unseen into positions
from which they could fire into the tops of trees of the blow and then pullback before the artillerymen could bring fire on them those cattles were bad enough but they were to be
expected there was one incident that the batin commander thought they could have got along very nicely without regimented that to batalions erect barbwire along their whole font
which they did cheerfully but when a truckload of anti person no minds came down the major looked at them with misgivings those things were as dangerous to the people who laid
them as those as they were to the enemy he thought so he supervised the the mind rain carefully meticulously noting the location of each mine on a large scale sketch of the area
being mind the day after all the mind related he heard the flat mulford roar of a land mine that once he ran toward the sound he got there with the aid men to watch her sorrow and
anger while they evacuated three men from the middle of their own mind field one of them was dead the last litter carried our perion who badly hit and a leg with several fragments
did not know how severely he was hurt the other wounded men unconscious was being placed on the medical g on still another litter came round the corner of the little farm house
that stood on the edge of the woods the man on this litter had his eyes closed his face twisting horribly he jerked over he jerked all over bring his legs up so hard to eat men
had to hold him down on the litter the major looking at the man in wonder asked what's the matter with him the ad men work contemptuous ah said on this guy never got hit by
nothing he was in a hole fifty yards from where it happened but he started screaming and yelling and carrying on something awful we thought he was hit but he had got a hole in him
he was like this one we got to him john's realized he had just seen his first case of nero sight cosis commonly called combat exhaustion or sea e it wasn't the only one he was to
see so you got primary i guess that's except firmly fire but trinitie when you hit one of your own land mines nightmare now then also the start sense some psychological damage to
guys on the all the front line and you know that goes nocken good he can't fight he's literally streaming in jerking round the after hold and down all right now the battalion is
gonna move in and take over a whole area um from the third armories and it's in moving into the various three hundred replacements coming in so something about that the time
supposed to be nine hundred people and they're getting three hundred replacements so that tells you and again i am breathing i'm skipping and only breathing not not breathing to
him skipping so much of the fighting and combat in this book but it's just going on continuously and at this point there going in they have they already have three hundred
replacements savenaye had three hundred people ah you know taken out or or eater either wonder to killed so at this point we tenorios company is on a patrol and eronte up an out
post into some prepriotor and as the petroso there here we go then came the first shots from the patrol they were going in well and it looked for a few seconds as if ring was
going to get to his outpost but a flare of three red star clusters floated up from the german lines and all hell broke loose again every crowd gun that had been used to help stop
the third armoured plus probably a few that had come in late opened up on about a hundred and fifty yards of eight of the able company front it was concentrated thunderous murder
such as no one in the italian and ever seen before ryning was a mass of seeing leaping flame that looked as if it were fed from below rather than from an inconceivable torrent of
shells that came on and on and on the brush which suddenly from the company to the battalion command posterite the bataan commander in his staff hearing the first wind of the
shells dived for the new command post hall where they huddled what will the walls shuddered and derrendo from the roof concussion blew out the candles but nobody was hurt the
german caught gunners switched to see company for a few rounds then right went right back to their prime target able company while they were pounding anne's company a single short
call came in over the three hundred which is their radio able six is clipped that mean rind been hit but there were no details twenty minutes after that pretty red star cluster
went up all was quiet again except for some moans and cries for medic that floated back from able company but at least no german infantry had come in on de fire in the twenty in
that twenty minutes the company lost fifty four men plus its company commander almost every man in the patrol had been called above ground and was killed or wounded while most to
the other casualties came from tree and hedge row bursts that sent fragments down into the holes the men of the command post group gathered round the hole silently watched the
parade of walking wounded that filed slowly by on the way of the age station occasionally a man would stumble or water whereupon a messenger a wire man would jump to help him
every aid man and litter in the battalion was already up at the able line and the first letters were not far behind the walking wounded some of the victims moaned and a few cried
out a little now and then but most were very quiet johns's glad he could not see their faces in the dark the last litter went by with no word from ryan john was beginning to hope
he hadn't been hurt badly when four men loomed out of the darkness each carrying a corner of a blanket rhynas half sitting half lying in the make shift litter gritting his teeth
at the pain of the wounds in an arm and a leg they laid the blanket down gently in front of the major who stripped off his coat and laid it over the company commander rainment to
work up a feeble grin it didn't work too good did it boss that's the aftahnoon when you the dingman der and you come upon a plan to the company commander and ye think you've got
everything right and you lose fifty four guys in a company in twenty minutes and your company commander comes back and says it didn't go to good did it boss they have you wait now
they do end up pushing forward they get some ground and he's out checking an ear to befinde out in a talk about it but he he goes forward to find out what's going on and make sure
the guy's them and at one point he's checking an outpost little outpost where there guarding this cervara and all the guys in the group are focused on a tank of an old burn out
take the out there in front of him and he comes up to them and he re goldback to book john's pointed to the corner this is take all three you watch that tank while the whole
german or we could crawl up to within ten feet of you without knowing it the sergeant's mouth dropped open god major i never even thought about it after they shot at us from the
tank last time will you better dance straight start thinking about your flanks if you want it if you want to end up being able to think anal i wouldn't give a damn if they knocked
all three you stupid vaster doubt but if they got you that have a good chance of getting into the middle of your company and i wouldn't like that now damn you start thinking again
you know what he's detached those guys just got shot at for those he that take they're not worried about their flank there were not the tank noisier being in their other ainuther
sneaking up into it so he's attached to your old up and sez he this setter poked on a tank but you can't you've got to keep thinking go back to the carters came down during the
night directing the goon red major john's first petunia hundred and fifteen infantry regiment would relieve lemon read by midnight of the following day lemon was co named for the
hundred and sixteenth whose red first batallion was holding the line to the left where the goon read it hopped off nearly three weeks before so there going up to relieve and an
old lit they're going up to do to take positions at hold him meeting the commander of this of this group there taking the place of back the book the big commander de introducing
himself shook hands all around then ned took a deep breath and started in on a careful detailed briefing fellows he said this is a hot spot i know you've all been in a hot lots of
them before but please take my word for it this one is really hot he paused and looked at the officer as if to make sure they were going to take his word for it then he went on
we've got noticers hupon the other side of the hedge rows there the best that hid their has and they know it they don't get lost much rest we don't give them any we have
casualties every day so please do your best not to cause any more than we have to take any way my boys have been here for two weeks now and they're getting right touchy so if any
of you get snapped that don't that don't pay attention to it just go on and they'll get over it so that this guy's guys are pretty burn out of this point and to do this they do
this turn over and he goes out and again the turnover happens there's more combat there's more casualties um and it he's going out but they had things settled down and he's going
out to check the line and he rebeck to look as usual major john's as a number of men how they were getting along the god of an answer that surprised in a sartin said well sir
everything's okay if a tough spot but i figure were as good as any other outfit to hold the down and somebody's got to do it but i sure wish the major would get around and see us
more often does the men a world of good to see you down here in the lines the major who had fought he was getting round about as often as any potain commander should was seriously
concerned because this sergeant didn't seem to think so instead of being annoyed he was pleased at the man had the uncommon guts to say what he thought whether or not he was right
so very go but in commander this a getting all mad that the sargent says something he's actually thankful he answered okay sorge you'll see me around a lot more in the future the
sergeant saluted sharply whereupon stone missus new company grander stone in the major went on stone trying to stammer out an apology for the brass sergeant john's cut him off but
not before stone had volunteered the statement that he and self thought the major got around more than any other botanicae he never seen the fact that stone had not seen any
patacon ers did not escape john's who smiled to imself as the company commander lapsed into an embarrassed silence on the way back to the talion he reviewed his own approach to
the problem of leadership he knew that he must prove himself especially his courage to every man in the outfit if he expected to get the maximum from them he felt that he had done
so fairly effectively as far as sea company was concerned because he stayed with them that night for the counterattack they that had threatened her left flank also his personal
intelligence service told him that a company had approved the little battle he ingineerin i had with the machine gun that i killed jimmy and sadler sir he's got his own light nose
that he his personal intelligence service the means he osgot i have i've talked about this before whereinto own guys that are telling you what's going on so his own little guides
had told him that a company they respected him they knew he was going to get after it backsett it was apparent that this is going to be accompanied by a company proposition baker
company didn't seem to be impressed he have to do something about that now this is a distante thing about leadership there he's on the field phone and again it octohedrons wires
in and he's on a field phone and he gets done making something happen on the field ponapean the phone all the table the phone rang before any one containing john's picked it up
barking red six that's his casadora ors voice came through clearly are you finished yes i am he slammed it back on the table when ill shook his head he forgot to ring off major
sarawan gives the operator's hellofagabaluses are clear sereen wilson was the acting communications officer the original man had been killed and wilson was doing a fine job he'd
been in for a commission for quite a while john's picked up the phone and twisted the crick all the leather case the operator answered instantly yes sir what's your name operator
private henderson sir the voice was a little uncertain okay private anderson you keep doing your job the way your supposed to don't mind me if i snap at you once in a while i'm
sorry he finished he started a laid a phone down smiled picked it up and added finished so again you can see he's a guy that does it get all crazy win when you know when people's
come to mishaps to sign off the line i got keep you lined open your on sinai are you done you see ego maniac leaders do that get crazy on the stupid stuff in there or follow nor
own rules not talking about this network crowd talking of his communications are back to look this is not work of communications enabled three men to keep accurate minute by
minute track of all that was going over on the entire front covered by nearly six hundred men from this one spot they could direct the lives of all those men actors in the most
thrilling and awful dram of all time so the way that they're doing this and i i should explain the earlier is you have the v battalion commander and he has a small staff of people
that i stay with him most of the time his operations officer his communications after his intelligence officer and what they do is when they get to certain positions they find a
command post a sap and winter in the field what they do is they dig a big giant fox and they make it a go as they can that they put the law over the top of it they put dirt on top
of that or saying back or something so they're pretty they did try to get prosecute in their from overhead artillery attacks and then they run wires out to set up communications
with all these all the company commanders who after on little command posts and a hobbist isn't permanent because asked be mobled because to morrow night be next night we might
move another thousand yards or five hundred yards and then that that fox hole that we'd run dog isn't down us any good any more but for this little command post that they set up
there they run in this whole show now he talks about his decision making her back to book if he made a wrong decision he could cause men to lose her lose their lives needlessly or
if he was clever or lucky he might by moving a single squatteroo or calling for fire support defeat the enemy and gained additional glory for the unit all without moving from his
communications when in a defense position such as this then he stockener about like some of that dram of that happened back the book a single rifle shot could mean the death of a
company commander or could mean nothing a mortal round might wipe out an outpost and lay a company open to a surprise attack or it might only kick up a little dust and scar fu
trees a volley of all artillery fire could come through the roof over their heads or it could burst harmlessly in the fields outside a burst of fire from the orchard could mean
another pig to then killed some pigs that they folded or a full scale german attack each sound built up a certain mount of suspense to greater or lesser degree the ring of the
phone itself built attention higher and higher until the first words that came in would perhaps screw it even tighter were dispelleth so that's the life that their living and just
a high pressure all the time but you know you hear a mass of explosion and this the same thing at the glavering about on the pocket you know you dear to explosion give no idea
what it is you don't know if it's friendly you don't know it's a tank round being fired you know if it's edging off you don't know if it's a a mortoun impact ekongi maybe maybe
these guys got to a point where they could tell the difference but a day what you did not urbica and there's a sound as refracting off all the buildings it's hard to tell where i
came from a definitely hard to tell what it is and by the way the artillery rounds that hit or waters being used as it so you don't know what it is it's really hard to tell but i
was weird too in the in inready there was constant unfired like you'd eat now when you and ouside to do her puppies is always out there who know even if it was of even as on the
other side of city of you you can navigate but rising down down ramadan we were back at our base you know we'd go up on the roof top of my building as if there needed is traces
all night beethe marines down in the government center were getting attacked further fourteenth night and row you know that outpost the the army soldiers are camp cregeen mordred
amuses constantly happening the what was the where you if it's closer that's what is the concern i live yet encounter in general agisthus avalanche for as for me i was like okay
genowayse i knew that there was constant fighting yenowines going on ye and ye mean obviously you it was closer than the the louder is and the closer dositheos of ooncerning the
aretas about a began this is accepteth about all this i the german more there and gunners must suerete to because they had the exact range of every foot of hedroid by the
battalion on the tenth of july they covered almost every foot of the hedgerow that sort of gunnery was rough on the men they never knew when the first round were fall but once it
had splattered with its flat crash they all knew that six remade a dozen more were coming each one a little further up or down the hedge row when you heard that first one you
pulled the bottom of your fox hole right up to your belly and prayed when you heard the second one you knew whether or not they are coming your way if they were coming toward you
a got right rough each round was a little closer and they were so damned a liberetis that the waiting was worth toreante crash of the shell itself delay there and counted the
seconds between the shells unto you knew that the next one was yours the twenty seconds are so was the longest one in the world because you never knew if you were safe until the
shell hit it could hit anywhere outside your whole even a matter of inches and you roke if it hid in the hole with you you'd never know it of course actually only a few shells
ever made direct hits on foxholes but some did and newly every man had seen a fox hole that had been hit there was always the little tail fin section left on the surface and after
the litter bearers had come and gone there was only a pool of dark mark to show that somebody had been in the hole it happened twice that day so this one you can atouquia followed
what's happening these guys are in a headdressed position right and the way you work mortars is you make small adjustments on them and in the way that you fire at targets when you
don't know what the distances you you put the first one's going to be long and then you you adjust a lot shorter said then you come back and called bracketing see you know you
might come back five clicks and in that was now you're not your hittin front of the target now you go back now you'll for to an for quickened little behind the target night come
back three to one and in boomeranged on the mortar then it's like actual tool that can i well as they are your jesting the elevation yea yes so gay so like a little tilting little
dial is going up and down to to oh onofre at what angle you want to fight at if so what you do is when you shoot a mortar you eve he first one you go long de second you asked to
make short and then you basilican split the difference the most dreary pretty close and make you work with a legit morgarten in the third round is goin to be biotanates but what
you say you here is the germans they already knew the exact settings for where to put are like i always see moving at this port in the hydrated need to take the they just go there
preened setting yet think and put around right on that soothe kind a figured it out before him if i do not before him they know the exact even what i would ave know that distance
it you know the distance at the mortar shot at a certain elevation but what they don't know is if you're trying to shoot at something that you don't know exactly where it is
willanous the mate the distance would you a little bit challenge you could do now i'll good sniper or a good mortainne pretty close to know snipers know that he this thing they'd
get a down to really you know how many metritis and to the wild a good morten but even that you know when you're talking about a far distance of eight hundred thousand meters you
might be off by fifty meters and not that disobey fifty metres of the mortars a big distance knocking or killed atargata you're trying to hit but with these germans at this point
they already have everything measured and dialed they have arranged carswall we call aranians like i know examen you set up in a position you get all your range rinded you find
out what the range and distance of everything that our looking at is you know exactly i fortitood elinor skullbone ody over that corner that building that's eight hearthfire to
meters boom crack emberance battle ship ever that i do remittance can't see it but you anotheree bit it is your your basically your first round s going to be a little bit if you
had something then you got a you like on jostle so what the germans like i said the germans had these things pre registered and then what they would do as they would just drop
they were just hit the whole hedgerow the telifonia and these guys knew that once the first round goes it yorotov in away from me on the head drop or toward me oh yeah yeah and so
can you imagine the the damn pressure when you're sitting here that first round goes and now the next round of waggonette away from me meaning the germans are going to do our
tiling away from me i or the dialing towards me and in how many rounds they gonna go to aseity do in a frown yet you're going to be all right that's oltrarno there they came to
think that with the man what's interesting is those like he said as if the if the mordacious ide of your foxholing oh you're probably going to be okay because the more blast goes
up and out when it hit the ground if it is in your foxholed m and so there's this this kind of random nec that you're dealing with all right goin back to book a little after this
after seventeen hundred general gear heart came striding through the trees behind the company post hole he came on serious business that of giving orders for an attack if he
carried them by himself they were important gentlemen he said with the edge to his voice that was impressive the division attacks to morrow at zero six hundred all along the line
this is the drive for saying lo there were few details theatal ans would attack as the general set at zero six hundred the first potion would advance in a south westerly direction
with the village of belle fontaine as its initial objective that was about all there was to it except for the usual information concerning our tiller support supplies location of
regimental command posita sort of thing so pretty pretty broad orderlie answered or anteacta exerce sur hundred the mission is to get sane low back to but by the time the order
got down the peones and their part their part was pretty simple all day in turn had to say was all right gang let's take the next hedge row when the company commanders had gone
the staff discussed the plan of attack the cousin bothering john's most of all was where to put the advanced command post group he wanted to hold casualties to the barest in mum
yet he wanted to be as far forward as possible to be startin a war should see actually position himself and his small team of batalion staff where should they positioned cause we
talk about the talantaton about do now a betiane pretty big when you're a big battalion but this is not a big group this small group especially because they've taken somebody
casualties back the book there were number with good reasons for this in the first place keeping the command group close to the companies made a lot of difference in
communications but ticularly in this close wooded country a compo heavy trees or a high hedgerow could spell the margin between having contact and not having it that was of
supreme importance second if he had a missus wirework about keeping a plan simple cause when you start getting splitopen you can't maintain communications with them in the
difference between not having to megasominae ication is is is night in day it's disaster and success its victory in defeat and back a book second if he had to move a bon if he had
to move to a bog down company or to any trouble spot he wont have the shortest possible distance to go so you want be close enough to have good mention to you also at because
enough that if something's going wrong he can get there and and make things happen third the group cuniform to stay far behind in any event because they fully expected the german
paratur par to close in around them as soon as they started to advance if the command post group were too far from the rifle companies we have a good chance of getting caught off
and destroyed or captured then there was always the consideration that the men liked to know that the old man was not far behind and i see once in a while when the stuff was
flying around so he's a things he's considering there getting ready you know it's now a getting closer to the attack back to the book asaf was uneasy that didn't want to turn in
they couldn't say why there had been other nights like this they all sensed that everyone shared their own nameless fears now they start the movement suddenly a terrific firing
broke out every german cannon more gorrie and machine gun that had fired a round that day cut loose simultaneously the sound of mortars coughing on the german side blended with
the stream of incoming shells grim soon hoffman slid down the steps of the whole before the first round hit the ponerant major johns grabbed red six charlesite were catching hal
down here with mortars and artillery i think that i think there is enemy in contricion under the fire the the ideas covered move you you do this as an infantry cotoner company or
battalion you put suppressed fire see you start launching orders at your enemy and in will there all taking cover you advance mantelets what he talking about he says i think
there's enemy infantry coming in under the fire stone broke in the operator having wisely since the crisis in cutino the circuits of the other company comander now tendin same
here major only i know there's a patrician there already in the road with us so there bateato his voice and men are when normally extremely quiet and easy going now his tone was
strident with urgency had it been any one but julian stone the major might have thought it showed near panic okay the both you he answered as calmly as he could stuff coming in
here to fight him in keep me informed major john doesn't get excited about stuff very often he says oh you're getting attack coft him keep me informed you that that that's that's
are you eat ye now at some point all the wires and i talked about there were so important for communication the crowd back at the age station i had a catocalae a guy cried widow
suddenly he must import of petrol at came through and caught all our wires hell there hasn't been enough shells to clearly a falling to cut them all the smart bastards they even
knew when we checked radios as well so these guys he set a small group of german went through the lines reprovably right after a radio check in colonies he that's that's how you
kick off of an attack right you screw up their communications now at this point they are this determined bad real bad and in this is again so much great information in errands
such good documentation of wahaska takes place but at sufficit say this point of skipping forward they are getting really crushed and they got mask casualties they are there when
they advance so imagine us murmur talked about the germans no exactly where there more deserving thetwell the americans will storm forward and fight harding get to another hedge
row when they get to this new hedgerow where the germans were we they just beat the germans out of there the germans have that hedge rode ile as well so analogon as they get
position they start getting immediate effective fire from water so heatoner that's what's happening and at this point that completely banged down and this might be he don't get to
hear a story like this very often so the regimental executive colonel smith lieutenant colonel smith shows up so above the chain of command of the battalion is the regiment and
the the senior person in the regiment is the colonel the regimental commander and this is his executive the person one down from the regimental commander is this guitant competent
colonel smith he shows up and hears what he says what's the matter johns why are you getting anywhere smith gasped miss pegasus running into this position the major pointed to the
bloody trail to the dead man to the shells that were savaging the trees and finally in the direction of the near by front from which came the plodding sound of mortal fire his
eyes were at lacking their usual snap and he answered dully there two tough smith blinked several times he was obviously trying to think of something to say something that would
inspire this listless butaca der to new effort well he finally brought out you got a gigounet away regimen is got a move you just gotta get going john shook his head he wasn't
having any not to day was all he would say so what we're talking men we defeated a dispoint even the the regimental commander coming in nerve regimental executive commander coming
in telling him hey you got a move he just got a go which i that that encouragement this reminds me of of indigestion ansevered coach saying like you got a get on top yes you've
got to do some in that get out of there you and it doesn't help me ye so that's what he said hey you do just got to go mum i'm getting more gurty guys are getting mode down i'm
not i can't do it so back to book then for some reason both men looked up the hedgerow toward the rear colonel mc daniel the new division chief of staff was striding toward them
oblivious of the fire just as he reached the command post of volley for round screamed in the field just beyond the head drew the concussion tumbled it into the hole with the
major and smith but mc gandi not lose his natural dignity and he was smiling as he said hello john smith how we doing now yet licomi in a very calm men very cool and just got
blasted into their hole by the way you and you accept smiles the as how we do in john's made an effort to perk up a bit but his voice lacked conviction or forces e told me daniels
all about the situation the chief astafer eyed the scene wing it all very carefully be before he answered when he did his tone was serious and he was not smiling john when you
were on the neverseenher a vi and while you were studying at leavenworth you saw situations where units had to be sacrificed knowingly in order to get a job done didn't you the
potala command or nodded when you saw those things you probably never thought very much about them just accepted them as a matter of course in war didn't you the major nodded
again you never stopped to think probably that there might come a time when you and here you net would be the one that had to be sacrificed to enable the parent unit to accomplish
its mission the major's eyes were opening wider as he shook his head well i don't know for sure but maybe this is that time i do know that this is the highest ground on the corps
front and the key to the entire defences sang low corpeses us to break it and we think you are the man to do the job at hanover cost now don't let us down without another word he
got through feet and walked back the way he had come the regimental executive tagaste him john's wash them go suddenly he remembered that the general what the general had said to
him the day before i am counting on you he turned a welwod watched this little drama with detached interest leroy the major said as he squared shoulders and pointed to the shaking
son take a damn good look at that sun old boy because it's probably the last time any less will ever see it let's go john's never knew later just what he did the rest of that
afternoon and early evening he remembered moving around the command post forward again and he knew that he had needed the company commanders unmercifully threatening them wearing
with relief of their commands begging pleading anything he could think of that would work with that individual at that moment he found that there was a comparatively weak spot in
the german lines opposite baker again he badgered martin into persuading the artillery to give him all the fire that he could hit that spot at one time that men a lot of guns when
they all fired three rounds as fast as the gutters could load them a hundred yards of german held hedge rowin up in flame and smoke and dust again most a baker company streamed
across the field and into the gap blasted by the artillery that took the heart out of the parture prison a paripatra atter german bergues rest who began to fall back all along the
line it was no rout the germans retired from their flanking threat baker posed having gained a place in their main line but they fell back slowly fighting every foot of the way
the tenacious paratrooper slowed the weakness the weakened battalion again but they could not stop it entirely the company commanders and the petunias together with vitalian so
had thrown off their apathy taking a second wind and were not to be denied a dark thanks to the inspired beatership that had been provided in a few short minutes by colonel mc
daniel the german line was broken beyond repair the battered american battalion had made five hundred bloody yards as dusk fared into darkness the firing began to diminish only to
flare briefly again on the left then it died away into silence tenyan kenny called in to say their been a light counterattack on the left flank he had easily kicked it off the
major did not ask for permission to halt the advance he gave orders to degen for the night after he was sure the companies had close contact on their flanks so there you go that
that that's just it amazing account of note of ethership but of what mesship is capable of i mean john was pretty much done he's literally saying not to day there too tough in the
way that mcneal convinces him and explained to him that you know those times those times when you are do an exercise as you they they'd sacrifice a unit to they can composition
i'm not sure but i think you're that unit right now and we're come on you to get it done oh unbelievable you know that's a that's one of those things to where it that's where you
are that's where you know from the leadership respective you are now you know entering a situation where duty is going to be the most important thing to you and you also know that
the mission is the most important thing you've got a yougo put that at the top you priorities and you know you're in a sacrifice guyants goin to be a nightmare but the alternative
the alternative is you're not then a wind dearginni a wind that's the alternative is that your team is not going to be able to achieve this and and you know at this point in the
war this war was not settled yet by any stretch this war was not settled and so to give up ground and started to let the germans were you organized and let them start to gain high
ground which is what they were fighting for here that's not just in effect your man's going to affect everybody and so of said the son the poncas before the definition of a team
is when the members of the team think the team is more important than themselves and that's what you see right here they realized john's realized realizes that look where
gontanille book as clay pigeons unrelation is right is what you throw up in the air and shot at and as yosti's a sacrifice all piece of clay and that's why the name of the book is
the clay pigeons to say lo because that's in many cases the situation not there in so this is this is different then when napoleon says he if you get told the desuming and it's
not smart and you do it anyways you are capable john's can't say look no this isn't smart he knows it's the right thing to do he that's that's the big difference that i'm trothing
to get at here this isn't a guy who saying look ay we're going to charge us machine gun nest and i'm going to lose it you know half my poltoon but it's not going to make any big
deal but and in a stumble der because i sacrifice my patoon for meaningless mamachius this a guy that nos that this objective is important nose that this high ground is needed now
that the the sic cess of this not just this mission but the success of this hope this whole but all souls on france and thereby germany is riding on what they're doing now you
could break it down to well you know that made the cold hold back and they could wait well one happens when you hold back and wait do the germans have me more reinforcements that
their setting their way that you know what's what is that actually mean and so he is calculated in his mind you know what we need to do this for the good of every one we need to
do this at one point now fattori past some more of that fighting they they do a good job of kind of of the they've gave knocked out some of the third this and fierce fighting
they've knocked out they moved forward and they hold up and now they start advancing again and here we go back to the book one one well placed stubborn hostilitie guns stopped
that flank attack a cold of their tacking in the gets stop by one misellae machine gun the german gunner goff got half of the small squad that tried to rush him through the smoke
and the attackers had to withdraw dragging their wounded with them morder in artillery left the german undamaged rifle grenades couldn't quite hit the narrow slit through which he
was firing two grenadiers trying to take extra careful aim had also been hit by concealed german snipers when the major arrived it looked as though progress had stopped using the
battalion radio to the rear command post and the arturian from there he adjusted eighteen successive rounds from one gun of the hundred and tenth field or tory battalion in a vain
attempt to sharp shoot the machine gun out of the existence but he couldn't hit it and after each round burst aloner the hedgerow the enemy we reply with the distractive burst
there was only one answer a tank and miraculously a tank of peered so that's what i am talking about he's he tries with there's one machinegun that's holding up the situation he
gets on the radio and cars altered artillery which is similar to morgate vigor and more powerful but it it's the same thing it's indirect fire your putting round far up in the air
in the drive a big art that's going thousands and thousands of feet in some cases in the eirenicon basically straight down on a target and it's granted target he's firsaken round
to try and hit this machine gun bunkering un can't stop it can't help it so he needs to take and he miraculously and an out if you don't know anything about my incredible
affection for tanks and for tankers because of what they were able to do in the bower moughty to not only for themselves but to support and save my guyton again on a big fan of
tanks fact i love tanantia that's the way it is is this is why this is why right here back to book one steel monster monster lumbered up behind john creed and structions to the
tank mander the gunner watched carefully while in a face squaw beater fired a clip of tracer bullets at the slit that hid the machine gun and then swung his short boar barrelled
little seventy five into line i crashed once and almost silent nestle with the mullas can to crack of white foster a shell as it hit the slit the smoke blossomed up from behind a
hedge row indicating a direct hit with that a single paratrooper running toward them a few moments later everything on the front cut loose the enemy and the company charged and
another hundred yards of french realestate had changed hands then in the major the major wished every machine gunner in his outfit could have seen that position as an illustration
of what skill to taste and guts could do to build and defend one machine gun position so machine gunners tanks yes it's treble what i sing i mean they to you don't even see that
is right see machine other i mean of a anormal like a mark for you vesington the old and sixty broderick about carrying the sixty it and and our boys last upon my last onetorides
case carrying a mark forty eight or marked forty sixty which is small round an five five six round em sixty at lit ramble heading that is no one as yes and command no bethelite
your work on meet you to be exact the theeka the m sixty for the belisamia gone talia thirty not that big of weapon of minutes big and blood should believe me when your carriege
hundred two thousand rounds it's big enough erlitten about all whole you know all bettaire he guys are getting stopped by a guineahen gun ye younger as it on now yet snipers
snipers covering him ah two snipers barely were covered him but that's that's that's not many people that's why when you're on the offence you need more people then being in a
defense position you know a devraient defense position in your allowed to you've time to set up that's why when you go back to well when you look at normally we look at this hole
if you like a whitmore to as a whole that both the the allies in what we did and in normandy taking the beaches and what you did every time in a pacific taking the beaches you're
going against bunker positions like this anitus incredible the tenacity that takes to make this happen he isn't isn't that the whole in a way the whole idea beside being
guillotiere it's like we're just work an you know fighting went on biting in then all those that were in and the word of it that that is he that is behind grimoire but this isn't
rorer yea even without the even without sneaking around right right you got your heart uniformed soldier german and you go okay i'm in a set up a bunker position on this high
ground it where i have the enemy channel eyes than the area and i have good spread on em in the only weak spot i've got on a covering a sniper's three people holding up a the
talon and you think you know if you if then once you get that position we have mortes already dialin when you get there that are going to start hating you and then the next thing
you do is you got a move again i get what we are another three four five guys in machinegun positions notusing each other that's why this this these american allied fighting
forces and the americans here in the american upset in the pacific going against pardoned bunkered positions is in a ratable the graal now he's given cinendose view of war and an
her ego thus goes battle a rush a pause some creeping a few isolated shots here and there some artilery fire some orders some smoke more creeping another pause dead silence more
firing a great concentration of fire followed by a concerted rush then the whole process starts all over again the defender this is gustus cited formation the defender will almost
always hold out some reserve even though his front line is being torn to bits at least he should he made flick all the damage on the attack or that he can while giving ground
slowly then when he thinks the attackers weakening or when the defenses reached a certain piece of ground that the defender has chosen for the purpose he launches a counterattack
with his reserves the attacker has used much of his strength his men are tired probably short of ammunition and our almost inevitably somewhat disorganized then the defender
throes troops into a counterattack over ground his men that know unless the attackers are very strong they must never be suffer often than they are defeated and thrown back or
destroyed so that there going in the appens and mix parlors and happens in the sports it happens on the battlefield is gasaton forward on the attack and you take away a leave you
chip away at an a little bit you give them ground you give the ground and then when they when they get to spread out their low on ammunition boomed you had em on accounter tack on
ground that you already know um back to book such counter attack tact be ad been standard almost as long as they've been organized armies the germans employed them so regularly
that they were never a surprise but the inner enemy could never muster seem to muster the strength necessary to make their counter attacks stick their efforts often ultonian as
they had the night before but they rarely gained back any ground and were almost always costly to the counter attackers even the best and most proven tactics still required
judgment and the force to do the job the germans really had enough of either so there's a little break down on what's happened with the germans for all the notes to judgment their
dislike standard operating peter were in a counter attack every single time and we've got her actor taking losses specially for not gaining ground so their standard operating
procedure were in counter tact and near not gaining ground and so were the do in the losing gus and the more guys you lose the left guy you have to count with that with the next
time now they had a they had a group here that was working in the battalion they were called the commandos to just like a little league they were used in they would guard the
command post but then they were also in some of hoedown that gather and after it hoppergrass but they were running so low on people that they needed to put the command of ten back
out into the company's diregus company so their belittle commander univalve unit within the battalion and then he had to take those guys in putting back out with the with the
regular company now here go back to the book in the middle of the afternoon the sea moved up close behind a company to watch their contingent of form of the tain commanders going
to the line sergeant turner who made it who had been in charge of a platoon of the comment of paton was with them seeing the major he fell behind long enough to say sir we're
going in there to help our buddies from old a company like the helot athos bastards but when we get to this i sure like to come back and get into the bunch of command to his for
the battalion his cool voice ended on a rising note all right sergeant you go is in the same low and i'll promise you get another portunity your hell raisers just as soon as we
can spare them from the companies john's returned to the sergeants john opturned the sergeant salutes and watched the man as he ran to catch up with the others and hour later a
weasel which is a small purpose tracked vehicle flying a red cross flag clattered out of the woods carrying a load of wounded on litters the botan commander whose passing the spot
stopped when he saw the wounded the little command of sergeant lay on the litter on the near side seeing the major he yelled for the driver to stop john's went over to him and the
boy both his legs wrapped in dirty bloody bandages grabbed his commander shirt and pulled himself up on the litter he was crying openly and unashamedly as he burst out with the
flood of invective they got all my boy's major weining get off the l d which is the line departure i let you down major i let you down he stopped and sobbed bitterly before he
could go on major john could feel his own throat constricting as he held the tightly gripping hands that shook him again and again as the sergeant poured out his grief and rage
and disappointment we had to get that gun damn the dirty bastard scott damn god damn i let him give me with a fucking machine gun and they got on my boys to god dam he saw
uncontrollably while the weasel driver began to let his clutch take hold bubby back made your sir hobby back pobby back sure boy he'll have your old job for you any time and just
take it easing it those legs fixed the major was walking solely beside the litter trying to gently disengaged the grip on his shirt the sergeant let go and fell back on the litter
exhausted john looked up at the aid man who slowly shook his head the sergeant would not be back now they are finely pushing into saint low and and they have to go down this mill
or the litter ration of attack that there taking is down this down this single road that heads in to say love and the germans have it nilemeter have a dial with range you know
with artillery ready to hit it and here go i they have hit the starting to hit it with big round back to book john's noted that the german fire was coming in slowly the count been
more than two or three guns firing as they were all big ones they didn't fire rapidly that was a break but just one of those big shells in the wrong place as the next one began to
howl the men began to look for deeper spots in the ditches john eeled keep going dam at its not here yet the men kept going forward for several more seconds running hard now the
shell was nearly on the ground before the major heeled again to own a o the men hit the ditches john was too excited to remember he was in the middle of a road he went down on one
knee the shell burst a hundred yards ahead again nobody was hit the instant of burst the major was up being less go running as he yelled his men got up and ran too hoffman and
grime the grimsel catching the idea moved further back down the line of men to relate commands and call signals on the shells when the next one hit all three officers did the same
none of them got off the road here and there non calms without orders began to fill in the gaps staying on the road themselves by the time the third shell hit the whole calm was
working as smoothly as if it had been on a parade ground drill and they were losing no time they kept going a few men were hit but not many oddly ill be enough not an officer or
non com was knocked out of the middle the road though each leader only went down on one knee one shell burst not twenty forty five yards ahead of the major but it hit just around
a small bend in the road and he was sheltered by the bank he ran forward through the smoke and dust nearly falling over a man who was rolling crazily half in and half out of the
ditch john's grabbed him by the arm to help him to his feet crying come on boy let's go the man tried to get up with stumbled awkwardly forward only then did john look down and
see that the soldier had no feet he was trying valiantly to stand on the stumps of his two legs where his feet had been sliced cleanly off just at the ankles down laid him back
gently into the ditch and changed his tone maybe better take it easy wild son you stay here until one your buddy's gets or they'll be along in a minute the man himself was an aid
man and not another was in sight but the italian commander had no time for one man so after a quick look to see that the stumps were not bleeding profusely he patted the man on
the back saying see later bud then he ran to catch up to his place in the column a little further down the road after another burst he saw another man lying in the ditch not
making any move to get up and go to he didn't seem to be hurt john stopped grabbed him by the arm and yelled again come on let's get going looking blankly up at him the soldier
pushed a camera forward saying plaintively i'm a cameraman this rock the major for a moment then he said well you can't take any pictures in that ditch get going so again she
leadership in action you see him having two eggs actually belied and set the example and his other the company commanders and eventually the the senior enlisted guise all follow
his lead of what is doing we got time to run retain ute or in whatever is thirty seconds were to get up a neronis horse we can when we well know to get hit with a shell were going
to get down and take cover pure leadership now once they get kind of into saint lo there's a colonel shows up starts getting told what to do back to the book the cornels giving
orders again i wanted to clear the town as quickly as you can there are many germans in it but there are a few and i want it all clear you're betonies the only of patruele have
with the task force as you are the ranking officer you will be in command of all the troops in town in toocosy at the major who nodded trying to contain the elation he felt
knowing that he would have command on the ground of what would undoubtedly be as stoical action the colonel thrust a mapother is a large scale map of the town itself now get going
major john's turned to look for window weded grimsel his two staff officers turned company commanders both are almost at his elbow he drew them to one side and divided the town
between them so now their kind on the outskirts of saint lo in the starting to clear the town and we have sonachan drove start clearing the town and he set up a little makeshift
command post four for major johns and in he standing there with he's got the catabouchee new guys with him to the cot all the replacements because remember i howard a half ago
when i said he ysgubor had three hundred replacements all that has kept up the whole time they're getting all these replacements so at this point missing interesting leadership
stories he's cut some new guise that show up and there is he standing in his new command post and these new guys he sees like a position that needs to be taken to make sure that
you know we we have such security around the command post and so he egohood the p and three other men standing near by they came forward rifles ready so these are three new guys
disrepect dished up and again the pride of it the most fire take seen was running into the town of saint we avoiding big giant howitzer shells that are eating up back to the books
he that howe there said john's pointing i want to take these three men and go down to the end of it looks like about a hundred yards to where you will set up an outpost within it
liquor we'll come around later see how you're doing the piquante down the alley nodded a trifle uncertainly and started toward it the others followed but the major was to preach
preoccupied to note their been no briefing and no assignment of positions are duties they just trooped off down the alley together like a bunch of men going to the post exchange
two minutes after they left the sound of german machine gun fire came from the direction of the narrow passageway john's turned to look out of the alley pelted the four men
straight toward him the private first class panted sir there's a machine gun down there the biting commander didn't know whether to be amused or angry there was no telling what
the new men were apt to do if they didn't have leadership of an experience to well train non com or officer he decided to be gentle yes i heard it now tell you what to do you take
these three men again a sign one to take a place where you can shoot it to gun or where you think the gun is then take the other two and see if you can't come around behind it and
get it for me so the cover move the little simple look up or move you you get beanston have that guy get writing should be gone and then you guys maurine come promote yeautiful
the p c took that in nodded somewhat less uncertainly motioned to the men to follow him and started purposely back down the alley and not more than five minutes there came in
rapid succession the sound of the machine gun a few rifle shots to renee and running feet john had moved across the street looking for the best place for a temporary command post
he turned toward the mouth of the alley wondering what would come out this time two german showed first running toward him at full speed before the major could bring his
submachine gun up he saw the pan an other man prodding the germans from behind with bayonets they spotted him and poked the prisoner in his direction they stopped and fun of him
before he noticed the end g thirty four the pies was dragging behind him so they actually had the german machinegun the man dropped the gun and fonotipy here's the gun you wanted
major but this is all that's left of the crew we had to kill two of them sir major john's gulps nodded and motioned to gay was another one the guys to come to get the prisoners
the brier first class and his helpers jogged back toward their new outpost the major looked after them one ring just sat sort of training or indoctrination they must have had
first to run away from an enemy without trying to fight back and then to apologize for having killed to he looked down at the german that the battered german machine gun kicked it
idly and reminded himself to be more careful and issuing orders to new men they were apt to take things a bit on the literal side he was sure that the piece had actually thought
that the seal himself had a personal basire from the machine gun they had knocked out and the we've gone to any end to retrieve the gun itself in order to bring it back just
because the major had added that for me when he ordered them to get the gun yet that like a common thing to kinda add right like in you nowhither he work at the night club mother
that all a time like it you specially when you're managing big crowds to say he can you you know you fit over on the side here for me and they'd always add the for me or had a
holy stot like death's kind strange fings at a man in so common so but when you religonists strange thing to add but i think i'd like adds like this personal to volitionalist nal
e i'll drinagh now eating the command post when a whosoe of the company manners these garolan the city and the years some commotion comes back into one of the rooms and weddesteg
with one of the other officers or one of you their a beaver's there working on him back to buck brooks sobbing was carefully cutting away the officers field jacket and sure
exposing a wide deep gash just below the shoulder john stomach turned over quickly when he saw the wound the bone was shattered with sharp splintered end sticking foote bloody
pulpy mass of torn flesh that's this is what we stackable is damn near right they don't most blow his arm luoff the s three moaned closed his eyes as he leaned back to let brooks
duty could with the nasty wound but he pulled himself together in a moment or two and opened his eyes to look at the sea also here is wedless in agony but he gets gets a grip that
he looks at the sea squeezes lies to get hard that looks the sea and says i would just come in back to tell you he groaned out between clenched teeth that we have our side of the
town all clear with the men out of all the edge when the artillery caught me in the middle of the street he flinched his face twisted in pain when the aid man who had taken over
from brooks inadvertently twisted his arm as he sprinked soleful powder into the wound then he went on chadwick his back didn't know it until i saw him came up just came just
before we pulled off out of the little road back up the hill you can put him in command he's good he was gasping at the words now major can you get me out of here at want to lose
this arm sure boy we'll get you out just try to relax now don't worry about it take it easy will have you back to where they can fix it up and no time when i leaned heavily on
brooks who was still sobbing from the shock of seeing his captain so badly wounded wetamoe had been together a long time and major knew the sergeant would be no good around the
command post for a while so he motioned him to go along and look after the wounded as three so den you know major jones realizes that somebody's at their capacity for the handling
the horrors of war and says he you take this guy back to the age station now there's a german counterattacks there in saint lo the got things decently handled all the sudden they
start seeing in her a gun he field made barnes and he start report back to air there forming up a big counter attack and also they are field ponds are been the lost wires so there
goin have a good communications they see the thing form en up they're going to be overwhelmed there they really underman salons a pretty big city it's all kind of destroyed but it
still too big for the amount of it that they have answer there really scared that there's going to be a big undertaking the chorette the city back so the finely get through the
revenoos air talking to their destroying to give through to somebody that can pass word to get the artillery start dropping bombs and henderson is one of the guys on the on the
radio then he says damit man this is the good red and saint lo we've need our tires of worse than the ever needed anything at all or lives and we need it right now all our lines
are rear all lines to the rear out and our wire people spliced one and got you now quit asking dampest ions and tell me if you can shoot for us and saying low so this is going
back and forth they start dropping bombs and all of a sudden they start adjusting the the bombing closer an closer to them said theron lines back the book an olive directions and
it was questioning the adjustment the correction would bring the shells inside the no fire line may be on friendly troops how yes we got dose on the edge of town who do you think
wants this stuff anyways the arteman was frantic afraid of the safety rules the big guns who made them stop them just when they needed the most please sir he pleaded just putetur
there the infantry pretince is standing right beside me praying for more of it be last villeas right in there but the germans are still coming they stand the enim to drop more bar
bombs and bars the guys out in the field called back in again that was marvellous due to gain some more and then the guys transferred that repeat range fire for effect give us all
you have and give it quick your breaking up the attack and you're all we have and that's enough that did day babam god jesus out of the germans and that pretty much break the
attack and again in summing up witsen pages of extended combat ah in finally though be the battle is for the most part over and i've got stabilized a kinesesi and he regolatore
john his face in his hands as he sat down from the first time in hours he could help thinking of the deaf in agony to so many men so needlessly it her damnably deep inside in then
a leeson officer from regiment came in with lieutenant colonel his staff and all his company commanders they were from the hundred thirty fourth regiment of the thirty fifth
vision which was to relieve the first battalion at once john's could hardly believe it even when he saw his replacement standing there looking fresh and confidence he was
beginning to think the clay pigeons were supposed to go on forever fighting all alone except for the artillery the new retinendae wondered about major stan major john staff so
he's got to go cominetto take over their getting relieved and the guy says you have what's up wiser battalion staff back to book john explained and as he did he refused in his
mind all that had happened in the short thirty days since the first attack and the boy debrett his hole forward staff was gone newcome sadler carter and a course dead wendell and
hoffman wounded grimsel out commanding a company now ryan tod stolen cardiac canny and dead men all wounded besides god knew how many other officers as he had never even known by
name the company commanders from four companies killed or wounded mostly in the space of seven short action packed days he stopped talking while he thought for a moment of all
those fine people when he glanced up catching himself he thought he was looking at a ghost there stood kenny the shadow on his face a wavering as the candle flickered in the faint
breeze in his entries of kannya been wounded and now he's back in an instant his trouble his preoccupation with the root with the relieving officers were forgotten canyre one o
god's name or you do i hear well major i heard he got into town all right but we're sort of short accompanied commanders i saw tod deadman and cardiac back there so i thought i'd
better get on up here and see if i could do anything the doc will let you go these days if you can stand up straight for two minutes without falling down the major saw that kenny
was exhausted in spite of his cheerful attitude he found out later that he had walked alone in the dark all the way from the division clearing station several miles to the rear in
order to get back to the battalion his legs and back were covered with bandages under his new shirt and pants he said well old man there is anything you can do right now these
nice people who've just come in sir we're going to be out of this rat trap and a little while you do go back behind missus bland set here and lie down and get some rest you need
it can he did as he was told the strain had begun to bend even his indomitable will at zero four forty the major reported the regiment that the hundred and thirty fourth infantry
had taken over the wire men took out the phone the major chicanes and said good bye and good luck to the new arrivals then he enkennele the companies down tail to seven days ago
they had numbered eight hundred they were now only four hundred and fifty proud tired men the clay pigeons who had taken but core objective clapiers and from omaha beach to the el
the first batalion hundred fifteen inptr twenty ninth division had two thousand three hundred and eighty four casualties including four hundred and fifty four men kilbeacon is
that that that's that's hard to even fathom again think about the fact that at this time of italian was about in its used to be about nine hundred men and had taken two thousand
three hundred and eighty four casualties to all the replacements that came in i kept getting wounded unbelievable in what i mean that you her you got to read this book and get the
lessons florent and in also you get lessons on from that book but you can also get some of major johns lesson learned from coldevin a berth in his book about face and what's you
want all about them lay your so mesmerical layers the check this out so in about face you hackworth talks about what happens in august thirteen nineteen sixty one the communists
in berlin that started stringing barbed wire in their brenainn build a wall between eastern west berlin and they know kennedy who is president wanted to do something like you
can't just you know we need to do we need to make some kind of a statement here so he sent fifteen hundred soldiers from the first battle group of the eighth infantry division and
they were selected apparently by kennedy by name to kitty said i want peace guys in the reasons because their commander was a guy name glover as jans and he wanted them to go and
reinforce the british french and american troops who were on the ground in berlin and then layers colonel johns in his position a pointed de company in his battle group he he
pointed be company to be the battle groups reaction force and who was the commander of de company it was a young korean war veteran who had come back into the army named captain
at the time david or her and as i said hackworth points to glover john's as his primary source for leadership lessons learned and he captured them coming cessantly from glover
johnson self in about face so let's take it back to that book for a minute here from about face all too soon colonel john's received orders back to bolinas chief of intelligence
so now this whole thing that they'd gone through with sending this distorted to reinforce the french british and in american troops on the ground and berlin this is pretty much
done alter soon colonel john's received orders back to bolinas chief of intelligence most of us had known the magic couldn't last for ever but it didn't change the fact that we
were incredibly sad to see him go on fifteen january nineteen sixty two the battle group fell out smartly for its flannel review before our favorite soldier the weather was
bitterly cold but no one noticed we were all too busy standing tall and greedily soaking in the colonel's farewell address john as leader who taught by example so most of the
points he made worn exactly new to us but to hear it in a single speech this great man's basic philosophy of soldiering was like being led on letting in on the secret gredients of
some magical formula to wit strive to do small things well be a doer and a self starter aggressiveness and initiative are to most admired cadies in a leader but you also must put
your feet up and think to little by atomy he's sitting on the you got to be addressed with god think strive for self improvement through constant self a valuation avium never be
satisfied ask of any project how can it be done better don't over inspector over supervised allow you leaders to make mistakes in training so they can profit from the airs and not
make them in combat decentralized command keep the troops in formed telling them what how and why bills their confidence the harder the training the more the troops will brag boom
were the guide to ask lafoa how i improve them aloud of the of a group get them get them to had a friend train art next enthusiasm fairness and moral and physical courage for of
the most important aspects of leadership thusias fairness and moral and physical courage next showmanship a vital technique of leadership that's interesting and there's a bunch of
about face hackworth did he he specifies some of these things that he would bet that a glover john would do showmanship was he walked down the range and he was a really good shot
with a rifle and apparently he have a guy threw a quarter but a coin of in the air that each shoot it god he was such a shottat and another thing he did he's about to give a
speech somewhere and in sort of a mixed audience but bunch of german on short political people glover john's gets up and just gives the speech in german all right next the
viability to speak and write well to essential tools of leadership boom next there is a salient difference between profanity and obscenity while a leader employs profanity
tempered with discretion he never uses obscenities next have consideration for others whom next yelling detracts from your dignity take your medicine and counsel them next
understand and use judgment no wind to stop fighting for something you believe is right discussing argue your point of view until a decision is made and then the support the
decision whole heartedly last stay ahead of your boss when john had finished colonel couch gave the order to pass in review and company by company we marched by with just that
little extra precision or shoes uniforms and brass earlier attended to to provide just that little extra sparkle as was the custom to company commanders peloff after the units
passed in the review stand and congregate for final good bye john said watch the parade with tears in his eyes but tears remained as he stood at a tension so tears in his eyes
that is major glover john's that is the clay pigeons that is the first battalion hundred and fifteen ten pantry twenty nine division and obviously he is an example of beatership
and the men of his battalion the clay pigeons new are yet a nobler example of the indomitable warrior spirit and culture that is the very core of this nation don't forget that
don't forget that culture don't ever forget it and for those of you out there right now defending our nation that spirit and that culture it can work to hold you up and having it
in your brain can keep you strong in trying times but there's also a dichotomy there because not only this that war or spirit and warrior culture hold you up you also have to hold
it up you have to maintain that warrior alter in the way you think and in the way you act an if you ever start to forget how your sposed to think and how you spose to act then
remember kogler jones in the clay pigeons a saint lo and i think that's a lot got for to night achochre yes so i guess speaking of maintaining it maybe you could tell us how we
could maintain support of this potasi you want and if they want and for ourselves he would as fire for affection parhelia some so you're on radium it and your watching your
calling out kellerton a naval gun fire or your calling air support and you're trying to get them a hit this tartan whatever the targit be the so turn to get into it of building
where there's mosheshue did a direct hit teary say fire for a fact yes there me june to make any more just at scansion hammer that the room componere god so on somebody does not
it's on target you i gaffigan of gestation of those ones that you know i hate it here you in la folle say it and you are certain you thauch not no not that man i got you already
hear it it kind of come up oh then you all certain terms if you're not familiar with him you can kind of gather what it mediation tectonicas ruinated and stuffing out but that i
now the i never could relieve figure out exactly what that means as the pole too you know bodeni at will or you all that all these other things that you hear ye fire for effect
for a perfect astheneia sun like a child men like to distract him or something to have some effect other than her in the dark interlita ye verily i already is very opposition on
so good do they do me when you show me a police the gasman you and and i'm telling you like and i said this before that thread of a i i actually don't like using the word warrior
culture ye because because it's so over her used here is so over used in its latest it's it's been so degraded it by this hold meaningless things acaiari or created i mean because
you you know degheim and actually survived his upper than her yea aias real war or or no i do you not yet you know afferent but there's no other word that i can put on it it least
that i could think of right now will you talk about it the american culture and if so as as americans a big place and america's got a lot of good things going for it alienation
the culture of art all art in america's massive the other culture of music is is unbelievably powerful here the culture of education an academia all these things are massive in
america right and and it's really easy to forget though culture this the most in my mind the most powerful ultra we have on i could be wrong or i mean otorrhaea spirit and cucheri
that huge here very fine or capitalist culture we want to make money we want a droll we want to do things right those are all really really powerful and i think we tend to forget
we can to forget we want to we want to say that you know the japanese bushido culture is this thing we should i after guess what desolate that she to culture verses the u s
marines you know storming beaches in heavily defended beesides what is that the american warrior culture that's that's the real deal ye that's the really denotes o the storm
troopers a year those or such a warrior culture guess what did compare them to these guys no not happening sorry ye yet these in his pilot like that that there is a little part in
the book where the guy got his laketon off something like that and he was like all be bad upobasin and it direly seem like he was you other distabit his legs he was pitthean for
they herlikini down i'm going you know yes i think a lot of times and you know americans kind o wantin example where you don't want to allthing are going real good it's easy a
point out the things that are not going by dealer one who whatever the case may be like an if everything is perfect the little imperfections show themselves more you know like if
your life is like everything together were near there though your job as good as in your family's good or whatever but meanwhile like your anamoo front lawn is going down you like
my friend on going britonis like that kind of thing well i think that's what we have in the u s it's a kind of like good things are real ideas i think it's more just a matter of
percentage i mean i i think in america right now it's like old one per cent of the population is actually in the military i mean all these world war two veterans not many of them
left to a team better and are getting older and careened veterans are very very rare at this point so in what or a movie about that you know wissinoming movies about saint lo they
make movies about the aliens attacking or whatever you know so we just it's pretty easy to forget that the reason were here and the reason were not speaking german is one reason
were not speaking japanese is because of this warrior culture here which kind be it's right up there right up these show me any warrior culture that has the same that you know i
know there's equivalence i know that there is other i know there's the military units in the world in other countries that have a proud military traditions well but you know
obviously in bias towards mine but ah where you tell me any historical unit that you say all that these gods what the spartans and they were to reward haven't really spent much
time with a night ten year old marine yeh the you you haven't spent much time with the with it with with a soldier from an air borne division he just editor got me those guys eh
i'm telling you they're the real deal yeah and no matter what kind of you know his store of cool warror you want it you throtter i'll put my americans against the head to head it
just as terms of distrait up a warrior alter and spirit i go i'll go to to tell i'll be on to them for sure i'm not to let that they were better but i will tell it to with the
spartans i will to it out with him i am just taking you know my boy culture against your war of culture in the way you live your life i go go meet some of these young soldiers and
marines out there i you can come and talk and and special operations guys you know a man obviously if cooming get some amadone in fire for a fact torryburn the word in treated it
warrior culture doesn't get to all of american none less we are done support herself i was goin to mix some of a wise carabide but you know yet you might you may get done watoon
to do that ye be no because a massive there's a there's a great book that somebody sent me and it's about japanese americans that formed up you know we sent american send many
japanese to enter the camp in america as they won't want to they also took a bunch of em and turned em into a fighting unit for the four forty cent yes and they were they might be
the most highly decorated unit of their of that size because the but a lotchen community in a yesterdays and speaking in caught like kanhoha callerer yes so you am i lowdest up
sintegaliska by the way by the learned shame mamelouques with us he after another oleman would have water beast he he you know what he was training a horrid yes he was trained
hard he was in close to us set this is years ago was close to scythia your culture and in ye yet some supernation you when you couldn't sit or lie even lottatori than you consider
all their battles and stuff this is like hand to hand sword to neckalace that savage but back in those days look at all kinds of culture so consider encolure e look at the weapons
like you can look like a monimus gone like what i look at the weapons that they used in battle and then consider like that's what you got to use it like savage men and like to a o
there there are lid legitimit warrior culture is different there's no doubt and what i'm saying to two capulet i'm saying this america house one is yet to us all with any and
don't little on that so support support white a man ship bears her soul rooineken bells all to feel like i'm talking about catalano but feel like a talk about cannibals a lot it's
one of the things you know how like you go from thing to thing and you hatboro from fingal you know i tried to pinholed and we call skill he abilities will i keep abilities to
important participation is required katabasis kind of like a thing that i recently got into and i'm going to be on the tousholi o good out darlington ider kick he used with only
going to numbers whatever so my men can was its wit was a i'll do one thirty five crinoline and press oceaner as rapierlike just pressing nicander is kind of like you you jerk
your hand odin having okay so it's clean jerk for with one they fight i know the heels o five and then to bury sight walk for thirty to thirty five seconds and walk home but again
so anywhere from i don't know say about eight set would be like a a solid one yuliwana sertion walk by the way it's like the recovery be is like is like your breathing that so ka
sought help wait why should i not do that i know he is at ion five five five five now and i i i tell you right now we're going to do it together and you just go five five
regathering alonger well i want to do that well it it might do contest wouldn't be to go longer well whoever whoever stops the rhythm i m saying that the rest is put is part
recusare the gold that lay well in me ask what is how would how ersite you like thirty seconds to do to take thirty second city to five and five year not a don't more nothing more
than thirty so you do five clean a press right boom five berthe's yes worn thirty second serayevo tified at the most ethelbert five then in all that a good question it's one
thirty though sure ay will i guess at my berries no put that on a timer though you should i do say like a minute thirty i'd rest for thirty to thirty fiesole like aqua on doing it
all because you are saying it like the tobe will you sure do you should do a minute thirty seconds on or even no in every minute in thirty seconds she do the five or five okay in
so that when you get as byby the six set you'll be like tired when you're starting it right for you don't arrest more foresel this is kind o my thought my thought process on it is
a manetot in total work capacity you know like a you know five repoisoning pepsis and ben i'm an have a have a perative recovery period walking yes and here's a thing in its kind
the gold this is good i actually i actually even going back on one i said i think it is actually not about idea because but you need to put it's like when i do so i ll do self on
the minute he what makes me nervous about what you're anseline rest for about thirty third vice is now on what that means i'll git you because that could be forty seconds yet that
could also be it's not a beacon on esther not one per cent as piles the weird thing but having a pack he ever since they started lifting rests between sets as been a critical part
the of my lifting retineo the beginning respite in a cause that just what i learned it off like that so i don't think the clock in actual clock is not been a part of the work of
ever otto's party it's like waits there's er just like your lifting a weight that's what the ways of ran the are going to rest in between sets that's what the coffer you can just
go willing now an you hold just arter whatever is good and that's just why philimot on the clock of a worn hour work out for me would take like two hours yet iris'll just all just
reshingling or i'll just take in or rest and i should have taken right over ye and consider this if you do in less you don't fight it to squat mum five fit to unweigh will say no
my your pushing on your second said you can do more weight then or less weight than on your first set if you rest for less time the right so if you rest for five minutes you can
do way more there so the vest putting your body through something different than if you would a distressed lest so it just depends on what you're trying to say you but through
what you can recover from all kindesalter atollons or no hardwork it is and a miss is in the sun dislocalised held me i used to do the twenty rapscot work out sir which is you
take away that you can do ten times to you twenty times kiss a aitian and it's half it's devastatingly hard and i would rest for don't want a minute and then i would do to gain
and then i would rest ward twynintuft that year that is the boathouse he and i i believe you i'm not saying it's easy i'm not saying that but that being sad technically that's
impossible technical yes you're right it is at last moltedo something you on neednae ty time i hailed the weight they you right him printery times that's a way he can do for
twenty year retraite so i get a genial nockin i knocking your right but you also understand what i'm a nictitating by air like a normal like you're not maxing out at ten raps on
it with this weight it so but this is lenormand if i'm gonna do setting an will be surprised that the way you can get like let's say you know you you pick the right way that you
can elocute times legitimate end your life you know want with a tottering to her i know less frigid you're right and but i think that's like the personal kind of situation like
when you say i'm goin to do away twenty times what i can you know it say for lack but a danger may do to an it's not normal also you are like your basically you're resting as much
as a human being can rested with a bunch o wait on their back yet in between raps to wetherell year taking like time it it's it's it's a really it a losing proposition cause while
you're waiting there resting her accusing assorted get all the off yes no i i i mary intricate boodle because in our not resting in it over had cautioned it's like awkward and the
nathan's hard the over its gladiator but and not to be a dead horse here so late consider you said they a asometon whose pretty now more or less the work it out say i get it wait
you can do for ten and do it twenty or goingness up in one way to probably they're going to be like ocean do this ten times i know that and i'm atridean we didn't you get twenty
because you said the way that they could do for ten they try for twenty they feel it ten that's almost taking of potent or they'll go the other way they'll be like you will like
gettin they'll be like what i got to do twenty times a rayado this i can do the bar tentent so ill teutonising so you have that nowheere you year like her i know the weight that i
don't do for ten indeed but you what i'm in get nuts and if i really push myself liking get twenty guess what amusing not wait so you can i have that cause you've been trained at
inyati i don't ee ye you're right and i don't think i'll ever do that even though i kind of considered it last time he mentioned in her sanango in that in work out romeliot think
i'll ever do that maybe i will not allow it ll tell you what i will do i ismene on line maybe with you one who sang a hundred burpee in ten minutes ginetta you say yeh yeh and
brant brannten meester to her gray irised it is considering that i do it and the firing i mean it in that hard at last you lie prize at branding branding od shape to the overseer
postlike pictures himself to any crazy persoots i i can't believe you can't do it that's why i'm so surprised this is what all did a weird ye as good creative push up drills
doesn't enter creative precedes like a i don't know he doing weird stuff put his hands up here over yet and awkwardly get feaisted tray like i i had good a push up on estinause
pretty solid that push up but you trade to push up with you know yet i had just injuriis is way off kanekapualena like what you used to withernamia sal what we were saying a
ensheathing about attleboro yeomanrie week and wrap up right now an then you started talking on other others crazy squadron and that you know what is my part next along will tell
ye yes yes that's he that's what i see what you did there lucky took in you and you tell me what you can i do to fix it hang extremist in effect am also okay what were we talking
about oh you i'm in to get above now dear and you are a saint where you should get your hand in time nothing that's all where you should i'm saying where i got em and if you want
you ye kalabutan where were really were but cool kettlewell all at sediment story my har and your estomago on it i'm not even saying get the cool cell bells i'm saying go on i do
tom flashed oo look at a cattle bell you like those cottages if you get in get into cattle bell for forty currently into gebel git some one else as you like come i like em i got
one o the small ones called howler it will holderness m i think some one anyway oleron que cette ballads like girl and say eighteen pounds what's point five pood a pound approve
sixteen pounds yea not a notion heathenising o ye so hester ethiop sixteen pounds he retake some eighteen months oh anyway i got one of those from my daughter so my nephew comes
visit he's eleven not into working out well to say that yet they is now is now yes so i like you know he's one o his kids he like you know us into a fast in what not so i'm
working out all the time i never really thought until someone made me kind of suggested it to say haycock out with me you know but oncome work out and he kind of caught him at the
end where it was met content and he and all like a come work out cause i saw him you know and he sagasta cool of seemed ate lydia pale surprised no not surprised yeah a much
briseis working out that like man one of belladonna you know in their hands or womanhood member you saw some of these all you you like keeteetee whole reason i work out to be
honest with you like memotas american gladiators remettoit was not all from when i was a kid ye not that i yet do watch it the way you are a parent yet rosanna elsie i want to be
a merchant i because they were there it was like cause there was a the mix between these big cinamos like belies not bully's legnano but they were like in when you play the video
game you come against the boss so you look at him you like i can hathis guy i can be o for you an you're an normal character whatever and then they end up with that's what
american later you swas in reliasing american ladees or or money cause there athletic to all think man i i i'd watch it i do a bunch of push upsaliae linenette whole reason anyway
i think all at a kids have that in their minds peshito for sure he wan war another so i'll say hey come work out with me and he saktawats yet is on the phone not a more full
alderete uncle jake neritinae jake hundred present at it i was uncle jake that time legatee is there veecious it in me i was aving but none the less he comes i teach him the form
and its cunigond form for he did cause the recipe the flexible they they they have fallen into like improper patterns that may be late like a dull over or something may be out and
all that to a guest but anyway so i'm like you know the just a basic kettle dolling i say at this were you going to do do it i'll do it is a shoolin little little tip whatever you
know it was a perfect for my first use adjust and and he could do it not the kind all the way up or nothing just a basic a manorite and my daughter happened to be there in sicyos
about barbie so as like what were induced from you you do cataballitive and then you're going to do birbisa they're goin to walk for thirty seconds basically mathematical he's
doing the ketlings rather than the king but so oh then you do berkley's urbanus jumped down to a push up and then jump up in there that's a burpy so he does it all like a well on
me you know when you transition from standing to push up another some way room there for er so i oolite me daughter he demonstrate she does he's for she can do pretty good too eat
so she does it and am so course he can do as she a little girl did so he does it makes adjustment boom he's good to go his ready sumanpie out because minds about to be super hard
like a normally is an he's like ye could tell you if enfired up to you all so i set the clock and we go and it is canoes to be honest with because we are all in a word to the ear
and boom they keep did did the whole thing and he's all wettinger wards you know and he's the kind where he doesn't do that kind of stuff you know but you could tell you
superfineness next eight what he said afterward he say he next him me you work out can you let me know degenerate or of a good thing uncle i goes in the holehouses man and the
house there to kioto about that terrier yes she is maybe i will i do thesweetest keleton they blotted good stuff your red one battle rooms before yes you have it a out not i don't
ever have white it there were in some random gomisariat oo'ee people doing this in an do some one yes they're like be yet be rolled in in i guess that's a good exercise i never
done them before but considering that sausaenger you know a lot of good stuff on it dot com flashed jooce out all the stuff really good stuff stuff for everything basically
everything getting after it also good way to support is when you get your copy of about face of course that's already on on or website jacopo cast out compensates the web site if
you didn't know club the clay pigeons of saint lo that's the current book which has went over to an is uneasie is well it's in the little section manute a on the top of the what
site talk about castalia books from episodes boom the list of books i up a sod clicked through there yea and before you tweat me and tell me a good book than i should do on the
pot cost check and she i've already done it yes this like one like sixty books ye to ben and a lot of really good books that every one knows but if you haven't listened to the pot
cast and then your telling me to cover her with the old breed by eugene sledger uh the whatever just so a lot of us she litelle to cover books that have already been on there year
so that i got to go and figure out which boncassen tell you to go and listen to parasyte yet which is with the old break but eugene are you though i think yes ill then like that
but if he had a onset out like i said it's all there by episode you in if you want a boat a reading list for me does my reading that it is hers no other books and who book is good
and i read it it's it's been on the part castanado on better cause i have a smaller eating list that i added to that list ohioans or i survived my game i dances power my fall oh
you that's a easy read it's the kind o like to feel manual small little version different subject but none the less it's not like a firin'll be toired it but in a menaugh ally not
anyway oh betises for supporting a gin your book too there quick through it goes to amazons t mawani we all do anyway right so when you get these books like i said lifted by a
pistollike through there and you do another shop in hay feel free you know when he clicked through there that face small little action agree action for it towards know when you
throw silliman in water it'll do no yet oonprovidit of feronia so tesino just to remind everybody when you throw sodomite water it explode big huge elnathan misty class like
imitateth er's name is mister bigelow by the way quicherat a day anyway also good way to support subscribed to the potato i tonette your angle i play and other places of the
deputes and every he leave her if you for here is a hair for you feel like her that's really what i don't reading the reviews but the feeling revenoient it's like old but
polyakoffs i don't know ye a good dog good and that's great for sure that's ratio how full express the aristides print word and i think ultimately that's the benefit so i e a one
i see or jocapa on you know number whatever where it appears in between one and ten in the business section that is good that's cool but really the tangible benefit for the
message is is spreading the word rebilleting on duty that i improved everybody's life really because the few improve your life in in all these ways it improves like your
improvement is the direct effect on my improvement cause i hang around with them so that's kind o his last really the benefit so if you want to help spread the word yeiris of view
you and if you want to give feed back about the pot cast that's a good place to do i think that's a inglesant when you leave her refuse specially the ones that everyone leaves and
fergettin that praying on and people aren't people people who like take time in the reviews though not good podcast yet well actually so ugly do so that a good impassionate g o o
d ye the host layers latineer feeling me but anyway i ate look if you're in the mood leroy you don't as long as your honest as the main thing and you know get callerfoot it if you
want those are true the fun one day like i said you know we reviewed the sure if you if you feel like it ah subscribe subscribe the you do we have you to do know everyone now they
think dear yes we see it all the time but in the event of his being while we nice to trace you at why wouldn't you wouldn't some one subscribed your atif i were a person who all
wait if you listen at the pages makes sense yet no i'll many reasons or whatever be didn't i will drive you and you are this is why what's the reason i live possess audio i look i
go to you to bed only watch people playing first person shooter videogame you know that i don't know if you know this but this that's the thing i see feeling his watch other
people one on you to this plain shooter again or a leamon into that i'm probing now going to subscribe or actually this one's actually legitimate one that i can kind o dig and
relate to is if my auto subscribing situation is only to kid stuff only to give so because every one sat a while i give my fontaine in the watch like you know they watch like
peteiro on of something well then he elicited a alities the park cast is a chest of what the parasite but like the other day you release to deleting a warring religions pre
recording we were just talking hebeform people seem a thinker is pretty funny yet you endiott was glad all ye cause i left when you detached it is early bonnygate thing as if some
one wasn't was nisame one is not on such rivet they were never know that it had existed the a and then you miss it and is pretty funny yet i thought it was funny to yes even
though as kind a kind of harsh it you know would you call me get away stickitintothem a ayah see now your you just went into the reasons to subscribe oh there's a hole rehetcheled
we make put on cut tiny segments dream in its nowadays levinthal ave hisleside yea in all the different but morals bretony were but the exertion they're just like individual yes
that you talk about tom sharable all good that's a good reason to subscribe to you too but one of the many might be it also jocatore called jocatore jocko tore up comes you are on
there what do we have sure rash guards rash girds a we started for jugements or first surfing and body boarding and jacking steel jessel yes cycling sorata's what really like a
safe of panic sure this little thing he identitas guards only applies to serving in golden or word about getting a rash when you're leeway to not worry about getting a rap i guess
ye i guess in jodelers yeah guard you against rash or ring worm or without till it has the year so none the less time in the point there is that it's for everything just because
her jacketing about you getanittowit's not for everything and i don't want to see you at unthat in er in er get out the rascall that's you can speak for yourself for i got you i
saw so hard at the club with a get after it rash guard i would out think it evening to that person is your boy and i know firstnamed at him you know how her can't be no no rush
cart when you're out not doing actinometer porter of that year odelette to be be completely honest i don't know that i would support it is a roman war i mean just like hay i'm
going out i got ocumare put on my get after a assayist like you never know it's going to happen yes you might bornier ady right sure she you get a retort out sideros story
yourself i hear in this said for you know long line ye see you're in the rascar your compression you ready so absolutely true and you know you want to lift into that good a jolter
i come so the shirt on there ike not tread and like a new one every one like month too i don't know what your gold is yet in an alley have i i've been wearing bronson's children
to shirt methuselahites pa they'll live at this hour the men peerebone that you made with my the face on whatever day so i'd always get caught up on the front yaha that's funny
the front and all the lawyers in the front but on the back it is good evening so when you were thouar's on people are going to talk to you the most you don't like it you don't
worry the one with your face on it ever die no is no reason for each of the onerous be reardon have my face to that yeasaying in you i look at that um but if you were thou an it's
a good evening on the back so i i never really thought of it either warn't any man and but that the l what i'd wear this one we good people will say something it will a good or
logogeny good as back would you sure it's backward at an or who's that gun your chart whatever people will will say something to you the good evening one elhalten more but they'll
do it from behind and he'll tell you that evening every single time interesting you have not worn it yet how do you know there's allus know i know i know the compulsion like
another feeling of my hypothesis anyway and from what i hear from the hill anyway go on there if you like something get something not to good way to support there's so hatherly
release come in o women an we come at the cool once ah there it is i better have like nine of em lined up at my door step i cinesias you got it i promise elastics on these well
anyway check it out she likes something yet something also psychological warfare you another is it's an album with track jacatra as jack talk in getting you through various points
of weakness in your ten'in really training of a word to say other than journey i have lietherthal journey soon your on your jurisdiction wakely maybe i will do it you chinori will
you found you all you can on a bit every day every day now even on rested you doin in mobility was for girlitis ye men sometimes you want to turn those those work odes interested
so don't do that and if you need a little spot with that you listen to psychologic warfare that's track for that for an amy point a weakness like i said get after it a gagaboo i'm
on music i tones various other empty three outlets jackwell now a first if you haven't heard yet we are now in needlesmith origin you as though company and we are now a part of it
in montenaeken we've been going back and forth with my boy beat roberts has and is who actually this is one atlay or reason that we are linked up in a beginning was cause a ceram
strong sure who who heard me talking about how cool origin was yet that they made everything in the america and she sent panema into and are you on this company in disguise
talking about you you atotarho her guess what we talked and now we're getting after it an we joined forces so well planting all kinds of things and ah dear geese rash guards
planinam supplements and believe it or not is the resort back in stock not yet we were doing a lot the word do a lot of building right now ye eheu we got all kinds of things
coming to bayaya the not basically i want to make everything that i used to get after it ye how want to make as you at so everything animate i say everything is not a long list i
don't use that much stuff to get after the i used a pretty small list but i want to make it and i won't make it a iterranean check out check out origin maine dotcom cause it's new
england which were in from de no big deal air laterite and also if you want i get into it like now not to find out really was going on there is an origin emerson to go camp in
maine i realize i hadn't even explain what but this is you receive seamon england so i know what this is i know that i am but is he you may or may not know people in other parts
of camaranca in this form is in this situation is big lake and on the lakes a property and on the property they have a bunch of little cabins bunchlike multiple cabins and when
you go to camp you stay in the cabins and then they have a kind of a central area but well we are renting out the entire camp or how many cavelike dozens and dozens of cabins
right all these things on a lake and in there's a man kind of gathering area will get her or putting in the navy jesting in the main gathering area laid on a mat so were to go you
you you know if you want to come you come up you come to man it's three hours and postnatal an hour from augusta maine or to be there can argonne there tuesday wednesday and
thursday there's two sessions that are going on the first one is the town the twentieth through twenty third i think the the twenty to twenty third so equananimity went to first
where he ethardo both sessions and so come to that and what we're going to do is we're going to train to itu but you can only tranters day so what else were to do wornout when a
cruise cutbeard some kind there's a bed late there so you can't surronto lake the wolferstein water activity on right sir and we there making lobster and on a like lobster but i'm
an have steak and you can have lobster and and ah yes so we are you hanging out wait this is the lake is the late cold kin swim in the lake and soon the lake ravachol out
cotediano out of a temper like but man summer time it'll be i not on be freezing a i don't think and if it is feared to give the monticle recovering it and also during the so
during the time too if you come up or if you can make that you want what poison was were having a grand opening of our new origin factory in forming tommaso big factory tony
thousand square futaie than twenty thousand square feet up everyone's invited that calm hang out you know in a week through like will do like a cue or something will hang out well
bierre blocks a bultiwell just kick it so come up to that that is the twenty third of august in maine commonalities what is the gittar of it a how does that work like the you know
there's two weak seybert whole thing knows not to weeks it's a wan week long it on the twentieth to all hanburys brientos silsilis like what we all just roll you have different
teachers they underlie and allangement did but the igorten i think it's three sessions a day of jugement how how many sessions can you roll hard at so some of tens marheyo know
i'll do some technique with you i may be over some toocita me your what are you know what i mean i didn't he's going some of that and by the nurse are also a bush different
packets going to be there an all echo missee so i yet ameretat how you learn that's so i don't knock o no lanscot lap from the west coast or spines coming on a desert me up so yer
come on up that we have good time also one where there were assented so if there's any one that wants to instantly dead left a thousand pounds you can get the jacal white tea if
you need to crush an academic test to jacketed if he need some renowned to orimas on books will get them books four year kid or whatever kids you know will got the way the warrior
did there's lessons in there for everybody check it out if you want the first the dishon of discipline close freedom field men you order it soon or go to your book store an tell
you want to get it prodere you got to do amazonians and nobles your local book store get it now i antell you don't git dis book for your wine sipping book club not a book for them
they will like it repartec'd n't get it for them you can still get it but don't bring it to the book club eh they're they're they're shipping line denoting a game but if you want
to get stronger tougher smarter helper and more prepared all round better person yet the book dispenser a field manuel comes out october seventeenth which means there printing it
almost now huso that means if you don't order it is there i be backed up you're not going to have it every notson to have it to be avenione never recovered like that battle i
tarkanean else gets the edge for you as i get you all so extream ownership on it referred to it high lighted implemented spread the world give for your team your company
organization wrote that with my brother lafe baton so you don't have that and you have copied for every single person that you ever known yet afore also i shall in front leaders
of consulting assessments instruction me laffan to know dave burk get the tin organized and coordinated for action and for victory that's my recommendation if you want to get that
process going email in foncannon dot com finally the master is september fourteenth and fifteenth in san diego all the other asses at a that more than half the tickets for senega
have already sold out so this is going to sell out don't get left out the cold you can register extreme honorship don't come and if you need to talk to us a before you see is at
the emergent camp in maine and before you go to the muster and sandie you can find us on the interweb the twitter the in stagra that face book key be hot and assapana camp i omit
i'm t i learning from my children a good that's the way of people for you came now the snap yes ah little otowakas what wall street journals on there the economist is one it's not
it's not this thing for your teas fourteen year old kid any more will it is but yet it will maybe i got out of the basement is also made of you i don't know a note something to it
i do not talking or fish but i i i have a snap that i don't use it and i have it like you know i think you actually come firm your account is doing because my daughter likes to
make the faces you know creamy youngster look to that to her so she did not my wife found all the time and then she hit me up for it like hay lemme die call it snap chaps so
callimachus she don't know what it is she arises a fan for dangoli all right so i tried to do it than some tinaco firm as ignosi i i didn't but i yea i guess i'm like one foot in
one pot out kind of thing from i'm not real haven't posted on me i get ye yet my ingoramuses was like tranteigue out yea yea than i get mad but jes told me it is what dey told me
which was smart ye is what j told me your brother jade i say you what just i don't really understand it and he goes that's why you need to do in orelli amaryllis said myself okay
you're right you don't get cold go i'm afraid of something why ever ever don't understand it how do you overcome that ye cause apparently it's a good method in her gain and men
did it not to say jane said so so it's right i'm not saying that but he's real smart with her can stuff like he knows he see he knows the trending like predict ship is geoff like
how you know how i how i a work and he's gonna he is in fact he what he does now is a i artificialities with applications and stuff are so he knows that stuff so it's like when he
kind of said he cannot but be like a you're right you know even if you don't know you're like well consider the source kind of the in fact he got me into crickety in betonies man
in im up thirty per cent detained so like all right she had could give him the credit for that but you can eat how of it yet end well you can find us on the interweb echoes at
echo charles and i am at janowiec and fine leaf thanks to every one that makes this pot cast possible first or military whose strength and true warrior culture allows us the
freedom to do what we want to do and thanks to the police landforce fire fighters paramedics first responder who are ever vigilant and always ready i was just driving back from
element in the big force fires up there and all kinds of people had signs out saying thanks to the fire fighters so thanks for you guys up there in the mountain sight in the fires
and to rest i you that are albert working building making in squeezing every one of life that you can crushing every minute of every day it there leaving in the face of adverse
and doing every thing you can to be everything you can all you then should be in in a game with our thanks were getting after it so until next time this echo and jocko on
