this is jacopo cast number eighty eight with cuchares and me jock a willing good evening a lining i went into a public house to get a pint of beer the public any pen says we serve
no red coats here the girls behind the bar they laughed and giggled fit to die by outstone street again and to myself says i oh it's tommy this an tommy that an tell me go away
but it's thank you mister acton's when the band begins to play when the band begins to blame my boys but band begins to play or its tank you mister acton when the band begins to
play i went into a theatre as sober as could be they gave a drunk civilian room but they hadn't known for me they sent me to the gallery or round the music halls but when it comes
to fightin lord they shove me in the stalls for it's tommy this an tommy that an tommy wait outside but it's special train for atkins when the trooper's on the tide the
troopship's on the tide my boys the troopship's on the tide o it's special train for atkins when the trooper's on the tide yes makin mock auirs that guard you while you sleep is
cheaper than them uniforms in their starvation cheap an hustlin drunken soldiers when they're goin large a bit is five times better business than paradin in full kit then it's
tommy this an tommy that an tommy aero but it's thin red line of eroes when the drums begin to roll the drums begin to roll my boys the drums begin to roll o it's thin red line of
your rose when the drums begin to roll we are no thin ready rose no we aren't no blackguards too but single men in barracks most remarkable like you an if sometimes our conduck is
our fancy paints why single men in barricks don't grow into plaster saints while it's tommy this an tommy that an tommy fall behind but it's please walk in the front sir when
there's trouble in the wind when there's trouble in the wind my boys there's trouble in the wind o it's please walk to the front sir when there's trouble in the wind you talk o
better food for us an schools an fires an all we'll rate for extortions if you treat us rational don't mess about the cook room slops but prove it to our face the widow's uniform
is not the soldiers men traces for it's tommy this an tommy that an shuck in out the brute but it safe you're of his country when the guns begin to shoot and it's tommy this an
tommy that an anything you please an tommy ain't a bloomin fool you bet that tom he sees and that is a another poem the from kipling tation of my favorites kipling and and you can
follow it and you can go back and read through it look it upon mine and it's it's explaining how you know the soldier doesn't get near respect during peace time but when it's time
to fight when the troop ship is all in the tide then it's tommy which is slang for the brisk soldier then it's tom me to the front of the line but the point that i wanted to focus
on he is is a line in the poem where it says and if some times are conduct isn't all your fancy paints why single men in barricks don't grow into plaster saints and what that
means is that soldiers and marines and sailors in those men that go out into harms way of voluntarily there not always boycott they're not going to be plaster saint you know
plaster saint like you have you have the little statue of a saint of onerous the the soldiers argumentandi the edges they might be little bit routeing be reibrach they might be
little bit drunk they might be trouble makers now there they're not all like that obviously but some of them are and guess what who else got to go forward he who who else is going
to go put their life all the line it's these guys in we envy the way when you are raised in a bark a single man in a barracks you're going to find some trouble from time to time
and then once you take these young men and you put him in the battle once you subject them to sheer and terror and death can we assume now and expect them to act like saints can
we somehow expect that there behaviours now in a transition to be coming beyond reproaching the way they carry themselves i don't think that's a realistic outlook now the book
that were going to look at to day he is an example of war and it shows once again that war is brutal not just in actions but also in attitude in language and in the way it impacts
men both physically and mentally and this book is wrong it's graphic it's brutish and its real and the language that in it that's offensive i leave in it why because war is
offensive and the language used in war is also offensive offensive and if you don't want her pensive language or graphic descriptions or completely politically incorrect
statements being made then don't listen to this poast the book is called excursion in hell and it tracks the experience of its author a guide by the name of vincent bramley whose
a young corporal in third battalion of the british armies peru regiment otherwise known as the three paris now the book starts off kind of wit the way the the face island steering
to isolate and as a stern to escalate they get put on turning and the three pairs could put on to a crushit a chartered crushit called the s candybar their sailing south toward
the fork when i want and now we there starting to get information or to get in intelligence and started get briefed on what's happening because these guys an even know where where
the facilitas were mill out of them they don't know where they were some random island out the middle now where they couldn't find it on a maple out of him well now there
definitely looking at it the ring of fur out what's going on there so i start to get somebody's breeze were going to the book now our lectures were in the early afternoon now the
most mammals by some of the very keen marines who had been serving in the fallen at the time of the invasion the falins were in a british i guess you called a colony but not
colonise little british it was owned by the british at the time and the argentinians invaded so here go obviously listening to first to hand to experience was better than
listening to some officer lecturing us on his personal belief at the time however an intelligence officer from way up top gave a graphic account of what the arges at so they call
the argentine argies were up through at the time the intelligence constantly coming in with essential to all levels where i remember most about this lecture was the officer
standing proudly in front of us saying the argentine army is the best and strongest in south america he told us you will be in for a big scrap if it comes to war gents have no
qualms about it at the last recorded reports the orgies have about nine thousand men in fortified positions around stanley the capital but ye also have good reports that they are
underfed morals low and they have taken a eating horses and sheep which they have been stealing from the inhabitants that the local people that lived on the falklands this tells
of that they are very undisciplined and goes to show that conscription is going to be the mistakes of they have some of their soldiers are conscripts meaning their forced into the
into the army i like a draft like a tismim diately my immediate feelings were nine thousand facing men and we only have two or three thousand what be fox is the big brass up to
sir what was interesting about this is one of the things that i really this reminded me of is these gesneriana before the man of fact is even mention any one that has any prior
combatence and so this reminds me of when i was on my all my first appointment paginal about being off the coast of some ally i talked about being off the coaster reindan that's
what the position that these guys were in it and and what arminda was if i was to go into roland when i was a kid when i was you know how well i was twenty two years old never
being come at before i would be completely different person than if i went in right now with my youthing that we talk about all time i mean i'd be stew i adjust understand combat
understand war better n forty five years old oh i been in combat leadership positions been in fire fights i understand these things he eat my attitude to be completely different
all osculate different then it would be then it was when i was twenty two or twenty three years old set narford up with a million rounds and teasing my river you know getting
ready going to smaller one i had likeminded of pounds of deer curtain the age we are so loaded outstay the gods were foregone world war three and that's the that's what these guys
are like the don't dare there's there they just don't then evereche and i idonea they're tried be ready for everything and and just their attitude and you can see it actually
carries through this thing is almost like an this is what he says to a later time is almost like there on the giant really hard training exercise obviously it turns very sour some
points and very much much more beyond that but this is what a lot it is from miss me these guys now some of these guys had been in i guess the common experience that these guys
would have in an isould have remembered this i didn't you know what these guys had come back first had comment experience from being a northern inland so most of them a dunderpate
over in the northern island but i think that was a a little bit more of a not it's not it's not the fool kind of combat there about the gitting gauged in here so that's what he
reminds me of hearing the way they're talking all right so backtothelander may the submarine ahms conqueror sank the argentinensis general bell grown with the loss loss of about
three hundred lives when this news was first brought to us we were sceptical thinking you ok once the news was official it wasn't greeted with total enthusiasm in the bar that
night most of us were solemn we now knew war was inevitable they have a bar on its crushin that there ansevered their interdining some allotment of bears in their that's what her
hanging out but all of a sudden his real you know you don't you don't kill three hundred you know enemy sailors and think you're not on a go to war and it comes back back to the
book the night of four may while we were playing bingo in the bar news came that the emus sheffield had been hit by an argy exercet which is a sypolis and was sinking the loss of
a harrier jet was also reported the news hit the troops on board like a sledge hammer until now everything we had heard had been in our favor south georgia had been retaken and
the argus submarine petrol boats had all been hid even their inland positions had been bombed by the navy and now the bell grano which was the ship that it sick sinking the
sheffield was the first of their stripe backs moral the bar that night swung from an incredible high tunas sickening silence in the dark about this the but the waiting these guys
are now that it's a long cruise down there i think it takes a lot o three three weeks to get down and back to book the day after the chef's hit we knew our wait was coming to an
end the atmosphere was quiet and a moral booster was now much needed the only thing possible for the task force was revenged the sinking of the sheffield had hit us as if we had
lost a personal friend tension mounted frustration showed in every one's eyes the fitness drills were now carried out in full kit and pounding the deck in the heat was duty work
so the line they've been steaming down there leave it out their running laps on the all the deck of the cruise ship trying to get in shape for a what what's coming back to the
book of the man in forepiece up suggested a possible move on twenty may so that other trofea going on there down these disguises too pretty lonesome the trying to figure out
what's going on there here now these different rumors and and now they picked up that maybe they're going to go on twenty may back to book our nerves now started the moosou was
steady and without any real complications but further south we went the further we were going in somehow i and many others still didn't quite believe the war is going to happen we
were lost in our own fought on many different subjects home became secondary now i thought about the iss and whens vorria in the exclusions on and of the landings and battles to
follow home was not in my immediate thoughts survival was speculation was now rife as to wet what the landing procedure would be we were still very much in the dark as to what was
happening but the next within the next twenty four hours of all the bullshit rumors and personal beliefs were corrected by the petonar gents he said it's the green light so they
know the now going in and now they're getting into the serious preparations packing and repacking to make our webbing as comfortable s possble to psychical up for the days ahead
it was nerve racking beyond belief yet moral seemed remarkably high throughout the ship though the laughing and joking among the lads was partly to cover the fear not that any one
thought death was going to hit him that was for the guy you were talking to get in the colocolo belief there the common file that we hear quite a bit which is not going to happen
to me and you know i i will say nessus i say it for all these shows that we do i'm skipping a bunch of stuff of giving you some of the high points but the the way he lays this out
and attention that he builds it does nouano getting the tension and capturing it and an ongoing through a pretty quickly but it's worth reading because a thing is worth reading
because if you are not of these situations especially when you're in charge of guise that have never been a combat before this is what you got up it gives you good lessons about
keeping guys and formed alboline them for combat and keeping them with the right mind set going in so now they actually transfer from the crushit now to get on to a warship and
aventino a landing craft that's that's heading to shore cause they're going to war again i covered that what in in six minutes right now it's it's much more well detailed in the
book a right now they're getting ready to do their landing back to the book the area now looked like an over crowded tube train the troops had poured so close together that you
could count the black heads on your neighbor's face i sat on my kit observing the order to keep all noise down no talking i looked around i looked around me at the hundreds of
came faces so they got can of camoflage pan on and hundreds of can faces all with big wide eyes each face told its own story each each soldier had his own thoughts about the
coming battle and the lads as the lads quietly sat about waiting always waiting the story of all soldiers myself i couldn't help but think that it was still a joke and that won't
we wouldn't be going to shore my stomach was it not in the noewa hard to control the nervousness running through me was the worst of all waiting waiting for that fucking green
light dormira dock moroccan next to me pulling faces like a comedian fock off doc i said i've got the jitters vallego a go somewhere then don't worry the frustration of waiting
and all the hassles of last six weeks disappeared as we washed and stun silence the battle for fanning head to our left fanning had was the argy o p near san carlos the essays had
montenach there to allow our landings to go ahead without interference the tracer rounds and naval bombardment on the tip of the bay brought us abruptly into the real warrant
jesus look at that it's fireworks to splay shouted a lad at the fun of the craft shut up and face the coming beach we had noticed we were moving towards the beach all heads had
been turned to wash the battle so that's the wake up call they're going in to do their best landing in this a massive fire fight going on with these as is doing a hit now as they
they did get on they do the landing the landing as on a pose and their starting to patrol a movement towards one of their objectives he rego when we passed san carlos the gazelle
helicopters had just been shot down by some of the fleeing enemy word very quickly when around that the crew had been shot in the water while trying to swim ashore our anger
brought home the reality of war and introduced us to the type of enemy we would be fighting i would personally felt i personally felt that if we could have caught those
responsible we would have killed them for the cowardly act so there's some well cowardly aci guess is there is the word used so the guisarding to swim to safety in the a shot
nationales they get into position and they they they hold up for a while and a in a security position back the book guardapie the the assegai two hours on far off there is no
sleep to be had what would the cold rain ponchos flapping all over the place and everyone restlessly changing positions all the time it was a great first night so there out there
the freezing is dead that's one thing they weren't really prepared for their won't really prepared for this a cold weather and but that's how they kick off no enemy contact yet
others on what they can see offen the distance they get gathered up for a little morning meeting back to the book peatra gathered the endored him for a daily brief and informed or
of the things we weren't interested in but also informed us that a company and sea company had had a blue on blue some time earlier apparently both companies had patrols out to
look for the argies who escaped on our landing one patronage the other and asked for mortars on their position seen in turn the other company asked for our tillery on the first
company so a battle between a company and sea company both firing small arms at each other within minutes the operations officer in charge realized the arrow error and
radiopreacher not before three to four lads and men badly shot up to them suffering head wounds the opposers temporarily removed from the task so again we got relatively
inexperience guys there out there and a again obviously a highlight that because blue albus real thing and people don't think it's going to happen i think late for talking about
this give you would ask some one in to you bruiser is said what are the chances that were going to have a boomblebee people would have been like zero periisse sent because it was
that it that tabokan the fact that you know what there's a blue on blue that we talk about histriones but there is blue on blue's all the time even modinhas is another example of
how he astute dave it happened between two companies in the same battalion back to the book well lad bad news said be the atlantic conver has been sunk how a folded that get hit
asked some one from the rear you tell me pete wasn't a happy man nor were we for the ship had been carrying the chinooks and luxury kit like tents over boots and so on so there
was a a supply ship well a ship that had a bunch of supplies on it including helicopters and how copies what supposed to transport the paris around for in that was the plan that
that is got sunk and now i get sonthals on it they got song with the things like tents and sleeping bags that's going to allow them to be you operate comfortably in this cold
environment if you don't know where fallon is it down by and artica back to the book some vaster should fall for this we thought all that kit on one bloody ship bad news of our
choppers being sunk it us sorely and many of us were still thinking about about it when petiole the next in for no choppers so the big wigs of decided that we start walking as
pickable to day p gave us a break down of what was happening to para was all the march to goose green of forty five commander work or to head north to a settlement called douglas
we of three para were to take tea inlet within an hour all kit was packed tightly away last meals and bruised abolished weapons oiled and ready and bunkers of vacuated bruce
stackhouse tea and the breath if you don't know they like their tea and it's it's it's appiani i saw that you know with brits that i've worked with obviously i'm married to a
bretaine how much that they like the enduring the i've i saw it overseas guys would be day they just would be ready to brute at any given time the first people at the shrinking
when i was working with the shock and guys back in protested been a have you the have leonforte by the british army and by the bride culture because there was a british settlement
for a time they got there tea on to they would brow the any enetae a break for ten minutes he's got to be over there with a little stove little hack lamp bruin up a take so that's
something that you are going to and i i i'm talking about it now i don't highlights much as i could and in this pocasset that's what here talking about having a cup of tea
briancon but in doing a throw when i worked with guys he as they asked eyes that would come and stay with us here those guys ur the same was ca'line on her bed to have to get the
potato back to the book we made her way up the prominent part of windy gap where most of the time was gathering the sin the eomments are amager of be company was organizing which
kit we were to carry and which to leave no tribe no tripoly as i sat consistent sustained fire on spacemen heavy machine gun yet that that takes a crew to operate so you have a
tripod someone cares the tripod some cares the gun some o cares einion lest that think that's how they break it up no tryouts for the afghans to no sleeping bags no burdens
burgensis or what the brents called their big back backs or big rucksac all unnecessary weight to be left we repacked our kit the burgons and tripods were centralized for a later
pick up they were to be choppered forward if a chopper became available we all felt pissed off about the conver being sunk and the prospect of the coming tab so they call a a a
march or hump the calliditate we were we were a pest off about the coming tab we knew that the march would be about fifty calamites but we were all glad to be moving breaking out
across the island on the offensive we set out at about two thirty the afternoon on what was to be an epic march for the regiment with the g p m g that's a gentle purpose machine
gun webbing order and amelung over every part of our bodies we tabbed or rather he hobbled as fast as we could once over the first hill we started to march around the side of an
adjoining hill at this time the marines were walking along side us raebraten orth wards toward douglas toward the douglas settlement on my gus they carried full kit burgons and
all within thirty minutes we had a short break to at the straggles catch up the young marine was propped on his back beside me with his burganet you lonthar the right idea he said
no fucking extras we look like don't keyser i couldn't help but agree with him but thought to myself that while we may move faster we be cold i said night at that time i didn't
know we'd be marching flat out all the way day and night in less than an hour our bodies were struggling under the weight of kit and amma the g p m g seemed to way a ton we
swapped it on every short break within the first two hours of the night march orders were passed only back along the length of the potion that we be stopping for fifteen minutes
in every hour some even started clock watching our boots and wet socks were becoming unbearable to marching rubbing badly on the feet most of most if not all of us blisters in
spring ankles added onexpected tea to the injury tall and i haven't done a good job of describing the train its miserable thread just rockslide rocks big steep hills it's it's go
look at it on you go with its images of what the train in the falkland islands is like it's it's nightmare of nightmare to patrol and it's the pen where it's snowing kind ears
gone now not snowing yet but it's good as but it's that cold word we ask which actually he is actually in some ways to worse in some ways as worse to have cause if it's cold
enough that it snowing snow is snow is generally dry it if that makes sense rain is rain yet i you get rained on you wet yeh yeh ah if you could snowdon you can maintain your your
dringen really cold environment words words snowing that's okay the snow it it doesn't make you wet and went makes you cold yes that is unlasting is right on that borderline
atween because in you get rained on but there in the sun as down a turn in the freezing so that this is the worst worst worst environment you could you can want to a situation
that the end and all there give her any have what limited gear they they should have got the song on our boat or its in their burgan but that even the stuff that's in the
burgensis in the full is the best to winter equipment that they would want all that stuff got sunk so he's got a guide that started to slack a little bit name is taft half move up
move up by screamed i can't even some folk i was losing my rag i could see he was out of it but i couldn't stand the fact that he was going to let us down before we even got there
taff was trying to keep up and mumbling out loud that he could do it if only you we were to slow down a little bit but this was impossible nobody could tell the lead elements to
slow down the gap got bigger the swearing got louder tale wasn't the only one to feel the strain many of the lads were struggling at last exhausted we stopped on the slope of yet
another wind swept hill tafoo uncontrollably he had a bad cramp and lay there totally out of the game i informed the mate steve was sitting beside as usual when it when the
unusual order came from the sea crying all her brew up a hot cup and make a snack that was the order the shocked a lot of us theoretically it was a known no sitting in the middle
of an advance in the open and pitched dark practically though it was the best order yet a welcome prove was what we needed the sea was obviously aware that the lads were suffering
from the speed of the march to me taft looked as a house about to die his nine stone frame wasn't strong enough for the rest of the march tafarn the british the army's british
fitness test and round eight minutes and was considered our best runner this proves as do other accounts i heard after the war that the fitness of troops cannot be determined by
how fast they can run the paris always prided themselves on tabbing with kit at mentoring with deer and right we sell but i learned to lessen on our wit on a first night's march
you must have body fat on you to waste for that kind of long tab that we had barked on so got a guy that's like you know superfine try athlete geary's now put a bunch of weight on
them he certain and an i'll tell you that that was also that a generalization to that and not always true i know some guys that were lean and could run fast and they can also
amparo like it was like it was the aitas their business men now they start gathering up kindfaced that can't continue and they leave actually these guys that can't continue in a
prematernal then we're going back to the book we slogged it out for other two or three hours of continuous hills bogs rocks alsine ground everything that we could possibly
everything that could possibly make you trip or get wet on top of the bloody awful train we had the rain sleet wind and freezing climate to cope with exhausted and nearer the
point of collapse we came to the first man made thing i'd seen apart from the small houses at san carlos was a barbed wire fence there right in the middle of nowhere sat the fence
stretching far to the darkness on either side orders from above told us to rest up until first light we have been marching for fifteen hours across the worst terran you could
imagine stephen i attached or poncho with bunge's or ponchas with bunge's to the fence and skidegate and johnny bashed up on the other side creating a tent like a combination of
like their term for making shelter we we fell at bideawhile is worried as were on sleep they call it bashed up we take bivertebrate rained hard for the remaining four hours of
darkness the wind blew the rain in illness as we all lay there trying to rest in the basher but although we were exhausted some one snoring soon broken to my fought and outside
around the basher little whispers could be heard and other voices shouting for silence i closed my eyes dreaming of a bath clean sheets and a letter from home i didn't mind the
reigning as it hit my face the chance to rest was welcome and i eventually managed to sleep i was awoken by a nudge from skitty who was already half packed and ready to move
stephen i crawled from our refuge and quietly packed our kit into our webbing the rain and called a shrunk the webbing so that was difficult to fasten cold and numb miss had a
swearing out loud we tabbed over more hills through more bogs and marshes my legs ached more than i had thought possible steve was if anything better than me with the weight every
time i started to struggle with the g p m g he took it without complaining terry that weapon he could so brutal march they get to their next destination where they're going into a
a lay up pointer promoter whether on a stop for a while back the book my stomach felt hollow the wind and rain dremmel lying there feeling near to total exhaustion i couldn't even
think of what was to come the battle for tell inlet my feet didn't exist any more they were just two blocks of nome to ice attach to my legs tapping them together brought a pain
that felt as if they would shatter and fall off steve lay next to me lighting up a fag which is a cigarette he looked up through the rain clouds at the darkened sky if we carry on
at this rate we'll all drop that of exhaustion he murmured steve said that he didn't want to look at his feet because they felt like they were falling off i pealed back my wet
socks saw blood on my right foot and discovered that the nail of my big toe was hanging off none less said massed what normally would have been agony clenching my teeth i pulled
the nail away by its remaining roots soon the shout went out that we were to get ready to move we removing earlier than expected to catch the last of the daylight when i stood up
my body ached from head to foot i was minus one tonal i took up my kit and moved into line with the others read to go the last thirteen calamites to teal so far to take a about
fourteen hours to march forty and colomies that was still good going we set off very slowly space out in one long line we hobbled over the hill in front of us only to see more
hills and marshes i began to become conscious of my toe and the more i thought about it the worse it felt however the thought of dropping out at that stage seemed a fate worse
than death and so i fought the pain it's funny looking back but the further we went into the campaign the less i thought of my home or family i wasn't thinking of queen and
country either i thought of myself and the lads around me letting the side down was my biggest fear that fear captain walking just as i want to let his boys down at his driving
force not even thinking about his family any more not thinking about god and country i think it about the queen here's a little thing that i had to high light we were we were
annoyed by the lack of involami down the marching line to tell us where we were and how far we had left the march this is as a less night learned a long time ago when i was a
young junior guineahen and if you're in the back of the botoner the back of the drawing you don't know where you're going it is the worst feeling is the worst feeling of no idea
how much longer where you're going where you are not only is it a bad feeling for the for the people under team it's tactically unsound because i don't know where they are
newshape i yogotama we could split up where they supposed to go there to know where or what they're going wrong the russians they could get going to m enemy formation it it's a
horrible scenario and obviously as a leader in any position you got to think does your hisaac oor patron now where you are is your company no where you are is worth with a company
recently they had that a big transition to make but no one knew what quantified that transition i just like this open ended prospect and then no one knew where it ended or what
what quantified hey okay we can we can move to the next face so it and it was a tough as that they are boney know cutting costs and being restrictive on expenditures i guess that
is cutting crossbite i rid isom people does it is a tough time but no one knew when that was going to end raither just thought all they they knew that there were some kind of go
off over they didn't know what it was and that was really tough for them and turn the one as you know you need to set clear goals if you know what they are which actually the
leadership did know they knew there was a certain line a certain amount of cross of they needed catoctin certain operating expense that they needed to get down to but they didn't
tell me but i know so everyone does the thought when we might just be cut my job next or who now whaling am i going to be here to to shut down on an now so keep your people
informed the people that are in the back end of your petrol you got to keep them in form back to book we came to a fortiori ver smaller than the rest and stumbled across it in the
dark the cold water mixed with our sweat to cause yet more sores on our feet we were now about one and a half comes from the settlement of teal inlet the agony of the marching
disappeared quickly as it became clear that the task of battle would soon confront us in out osago one and a half hours of lying in the cold with the wind shooting though as was
all the action they had that night so they begettal and let and really nothing really happened because the argus had left the duets im up dates back to the book we found out the
sum of the platoon had dropped out on the march morepork ly though mike coleman one of our gunners had just been shot in the leg not by the enemy but by a knob in a company so
their first you know casualty beside some one getting hurt for marching is somebody to get shot one by one of their own people the knob just in the derogatory to unforetold
imprinted a this not as not a not a military ferrati's not officious i am military doctoral term nob in de sanitate rod the sea o and his bibacious and his band of followers and
spectations later that morning so now their dug in in another position we thought they might have struck us to move our trench or something though usual thing but we were still
thinking as though we were on exercise so cold classic porter the commanding officer comes round and they think ali's going to tell us to redigested because that's a well be doing
for our nehaseemo this over here that could be a little bit better and don't do any of that wise looked grim as he approached the six of us taking a tea break listen in lads said
the orison that it the regimental serge major we looked at him wondering what was coming during the march two pair of of that their sister battalion two pair attacked goosegreen
and darwin settlements after a long battle the regiment liberated the settlement with the loss of eighteen lives including their commanding officer colonel h jones many had been
wounded and a casualty list is being drawn up they captured hundreds of argher is now a different concept for the enemy are believed to have shot down members of two para showing
a white flag more information will be given once known the sea half smiled and proceeded to the next line of parley dog trenches skitty cave john and i looked at each other with
open mouths the fought of eighteen members of two paraded out weighed the victory for us i for one covinous n't have given a shit about goose green or anywhere else on the island
at that time it was a fat of losing our mates in the sister but talian that worried me so they think they've got about but this other battalion had been in a serious gun fight and
taken some pretty significant gases including losing their leader the leader of the battalion back to book the condition of our feet was becoming a major problem from the
battalion an old complaint suffered by troops during many wars was afflicting us in modern hartrich flood our boots badly and cheaply made coupled with our old fashioned socks and
puttees caused this condition and and put teseide five year sin those old kind of school world war and the like leggings or like gaiters no gates are they kind afore your shoes
the unholy boots it was character toughfoot it was characterized by a dull thumping ache all over the foot with blueness at the edges some say it similar befrosted which some lads
also got now they hold up for the night and then as he sleeping we get this corporal by that's that's that's who were talking about right now that events than primly corse de
concorporate a bunch o coral be coratoke rest whispered into the trench stephen i came round together i looked up to see four potentate looking down at me yes sir i replied thence
isn't it yes sir being asked your first name wasn't unusual between officers and men in the field sorry old boy bad news for you in my half sleep i couldn't think of anything
worse than being welkin up orders from the boss were pulling out a first light and marching to estancia he said estanciero the fuck is that i asked it was another thirty to fifty
colomies away towards stanley we learned stanyan is a capital stephen i looked at each other as we sat the botteford two numbed to speak i broke the silence first this is getting
fucking stupid steve march here dig there were dropping down like flies and now more you were dimarch without resting steve started laughing at my moaning his teeth shining in the
dark what are you so happy about i said just thought of more pain for the cause pain jesus he was right my feet would die before me i thought as i drifted back to sleep i thought
of my old corporal who trained me corple dearing we hated him for his hard methods he used to say pain dozen matter the mind does the work he was right so right his voice was
screaming in my ears now for years later it was going to be mine no for matter there is wisdom in the paris training method methods i thought briefly of my parents who over the
years had a rough time with my slavish attitude i had been in and out of all sorts of trouble before joining the army i said to myself that if i died with a bullet in the head at
least it would be better than worrying them into an early grave with my attitude but the drop out now and be branded a winker would be unbearable i would allow to every one my old
and so my parents and above all to the lads around me a paratime cannot work without everyone giving their best it's the lads you fight and work for you come second so obviously
more patrolling more boots boots boots over the folkland islands another thirty calamets up and down crappitheads back to the book we are now within the enemies are tillery range
the sea has ordered that we will dig shell scraps for protection no movement like walking around etcetera until ordered to morrow so now there within and my artillery range which
we don't like our tillery round here not on it's coming towards us at least he badarayana look each other seeing where there at stephen tom looked at my feet wondering if i would
be able to carry on i found a bandage hidden in my webbing and caught it up to make small dressings for my blisters and toes i thought the fresh air would do them help leaving my
boots off that night was by what leaving my boots off that night was to be my worst mistake so far after a freezing cold and sleepless night the morning light showed me too
swollen feet and the hardest frozen pair of boots imaginal imaginable putting those boots back on was agony we marched for about four hours until the whole batalion and rendezvous
by the time we reached this point i was nearly crying in pain my hips had bad webbing burns and my feet were too raw blobs as i slumped against a peak that pitman jimmy morimur
mured that i looked like death warmed up i felt like it too within two weeks we looked like a rag on bone or me our faces were drawn with the loss of weight are uniforms made and
soaked our boots were damaged and we were hungry for solid food the spite all this moral was very high in the reassuring knowledge that we had marched and taking most of the
island without a bath battle or a loss of life so far so that there making rapid progress and in not really coming up against in the enemy that the enemy's retreating it every
time they roll into a place they find remnants of where the enemy was what they have intelligent with the men was there but the enemy's just leaving so this dam against nature and
that's where it's been for the most part of this point the keep they keep pumping we shall fall together we were informed that we would be marching straight on to matanda that
night the battle was about to begin so the supreme a piece of train called mount molong den we had no time for last letters or anything else we packed our kit and were briefed and
ready to go within two hours the botian formed up and marched up hill again spilling out of the settlement towards the summit of a standithe route we took was atrocious we crossed
a rock field with some sort rochere sharp and jagged in four hours we only covered three kilometers sweat ran down a like water i stopped at one stage take off my soaking long
john's we came to hold as the order turned back to back it orders what's the fucking matter now some one shouted just turn back and does your told screamed an officer just on the
other side of the hill out of the view of stanley which is the the capital aloud lads had been ordered back why surely after we learned that the cabbage heads so they called to
the ternes in his marines rome rings at down there working in and running some of the major operations and they called cabbaged surely after we learned that the cabbage had
running the shell hadnae to our vance they didn't think we should take the risk of going into battle on our on so the big the marines wanted to be their withem they sit out don't
don't go to to ah long tonet back to a book as we were milling around a pit fire with nine squadron a chopper came down from one of the mountains some nose line lads ran towards
an quickly brought back report that some marine had been a boon blue contact at night so nother bumble a returning patrol i stumbled upon him more or base teasle and it shot them
as they lay in their sleeping bags there were three to four dead whenever we felt about the marines we were sorry for them on that day if he if you out there and you use a gun for
party your job whether you're in in the police department whether you're in a swatter you're in the military i'm tellin you the buonlatenti and you've got to do all you can to
train for situations and always be aware that it can't happen beldon think it can happen that's why i happens back to book on ten june we had orders that something was going down
soon we stripped our weapons thoroughly oil and oiled and greased them the peccasse fifty rounds per gun for for balancing that's that's the basically testifying and probably
donson kind of a timing drill on your weapon to make sure the that it's good to go bob gettest balanced his gun by fircrested the water in it into the sea tony jones was just
setting up his when the cue and not a quarter master goncharof supplies and logistics came screaming over and ordered us not to waste amo reported out that the guns needed
balancing but his narrow mind wouldn't have it he walked away pleased by the fought of saving amo in fact he caused a major fuck up with all the guns in the battle only two of the
six worked fifty rounds through each might have saved lives and would have at least provided better fire power for the battalion so you got a guy to the supply guy he don't don't
as fire your weapons don't do that right now and save the munition now they did realize that they were not in ambulation shortage that was going to be a problem but you're not
going to have any ammunition short you're gone don't work back to the book a piece came down and we gathered round him ekelly he stood faintly draining it as spit it out sir said
johnny cook orders in a half an hour to night lads reenlist so you buy the model and a half an hour so i the model he said of big built a little you know trainman said he take
kanadaw out where one's going cannot through the plan and this is what they're talking about now is the assault on mount longdon which is about to begin begin to guinane position
and finally they are in position the assault is getting started things start going sideways pretty dam quickly back the book with ten olive rushed over to our position right
listen in he said i felt like saying i was any way but for the time joking was over be company of had to change their tactics to bit corporal's bram lies and cooks teams were
follye and captain mason into a company positions while corporal tomo tomo rawlings and peers will go to another task okay so things are going crazy they start to move he starts
to move with a withouten at oliver towards this other position back to the book re runabout two hundred metres we were all still together but now the run had become a fast
stumbling walk the noise of battle continued to grow continued to our right now as we moved around the slope some maiming sound whipped across my face i didn't think anything of
it as i walked and stumbled to keep up then three or four more ships at the ground in front of it in front and at my feet i still carried on i was walking behind the ten oliver as
i was walking behind the ten oliver we saw bodies lying all over the place i thought what the fucker they doing lying there jesus christ fucking lying there and were struggling i
saw a lad kneeling over a guineapig bag i remember as i got to them just watching him a low moaning was coming from the sleeping bag i got about twenty paces when several more
zips hit the ground sending a small shock wave all around me for fox sake are you completely not so what some guy shouted what asked within an oliver do you know a sniper's
picking out us we stop frozen solid in our tracks then fell to ground our small call now joining the bodies lying all over the place we'd walk into a company's form up where they
had been stopped by a sniper lying there it hit me like a sledge hammer the zip had been that had been missing me by inches they were slipper fire i lay there thinking you folking
idiot vince i cursed myself all the time we lay there blaming myself for on professional act but then i'd never been shot up before and my mind had been so occupied with moving
that the zipping sounds seemed unconnected with the battle so like i said first i bein shot at and he did know what it was and i've told the story in her before the first time i
got shot out o the first time i was receiving fire was not on ventoulet someone's going cigarette fell over the road as i who tho smoking in that humpy had me but it was round
hitting the humpy so any and i was the same way i was just like didentite a cure me when it hit to you that that their bullets are you like in shock or or deist kind of shift into
you know ye shooting game time but it took me a no i wasn't it was a pretty slow transition in otoo me it took me to think through the whole process of who smoking a cigarette
waved the helicidae ttes wait white they have so many cigarettes was the entire home visoka a cigarette and putting molteno it wasn't like a massive volume her but it was round
sitting well ye die on near yellow on nanthe hume in front a inanimate spark i saw a spark i was of it i fought him some don't and you so sosistieare same same thing i will say
this though we with the first time i got shot at when i wasn't in a vehicle you i heard the ground going to be and i on what it was because i was used to it from when we do but
are holeopen it when you shoot on a range of like when you go sit in your rifle you shot on the range and some of us kids you go down and you work the targets for the other guys
see you're in basically in a bunker kind of how for you behind a big barm yes yes and you put the target up for your guyan then when they shoot at you pull it that back down you
mark it with these disks so that they know where their shots had stigmate a dustless that you put it back up again some one you're doing that but you do it at different distances
you they shoot from different distances this out from a hundred yards in this you from three hundred yards in this sheet from five hundred oars in his you fortune associer les
different ones in the further out they get the more you hear the actual sound of the round going over it and a certain range as you can hear breaking his own barrier of it and its
pretty loud it's a it's a crack or but then when they get far enough away it did you don't hear that any more i had just sounds like pistol out like a little sissipuk a little bit
you know it is it's a but i knew it was for i've ever got shot out i knew exactly what it was his canine what was well that the first or got shot up not in a home rendent which it
by the way got shot at first that was the first i ever got shot at was it one home in the omelet go back to the book the battle was raging on the hill artillery shells were
landing there adding to the ricochet bullets if you slowly raised your head you could watch the free firework to play because that's what i look like the odd shout could be heard
and the odd scream but it was a sound of rifle machine gun and artillery that dominated the night though we've gone from hay were out on patrol were looking now there in full
there's a full battle going on after about an hour we were all getting pissed off with this fucking sniper something had to be done and quick he was holding up a hundred thirty
months said he's gear pin down there their pin down and the idea was the finding a planet they come up with us their goose them malone call them the land it like a wash short
range kind o it's like a bazooka but it's wire guided so you can actually steer it a little bit it's a missile a little hand carried missal and that's the plan is to use that to
shoot from where they think this night ergoing from so they get in position they get them alone and position and then they're going to one they showithe alan they're going to
shoot their machine guns at it stand by shouted captain mason my feet were forgotten my mind to entedian thought but my eyes were completely life staring at the area of the tin
star of this the terrant at will like a shark fin and possible target fire jane let off the alan but rocket was off the small portable frame and picked up its dead leaf speed
after a hundred and twenty meters it was at its deadliest we are only about ninety metres from the target by the way of your tinier shouted you from ninety meters that is scary
he's not missing jimman had to guide the wire missel to wire guy the tesselated the explosion ripped into the night sending sparks everywhere bob pressed the trigger and our gun
burst to life for a few seconds then stopped stoppige bob i tried to lift the feet the cover off the top of the jphthah was in the way i ripped off the night side from the weapon
that threw it into assassinate gay sash i cleared the gun and reloaded babas just about to fire again when a sipping sound ripped into ground right in front of our tripod we both
ducked behind the bank the enemies bullets whizzed over our heads and all around us jinas laughing and shouted they have seen you all right flocking brilliant isn't it my knight
and the bloody gone packed up capitation shouted over from behind us reload reload seas nine once another one up there they want to me it again at one hit that snipe her position
again with a meal on which they do then they eventually take care of that problem and enter evil to move on now they start coming back down from that from that supporting position
because it that's it they're doing is the most part there assigned into supporting positions to get the high ground in support the assault as their happening may come back down
from the hat we reached the bottom the hill at about zero zero three zero hours the battle had been going for some three and a half hours we came up to the apafis at post and
walked past a line a guy lying there moaning in half silence the medics were busy with all the wounded there seemed to be about twenty five guys working and wounded in the group
we were sitting some twenty meters from them in the darkness and we could only just see the scene by the light of the moon a sergeant from battalion accae over and told came over
to us and the ten oliver and captain mason stood up to meet him we have free confirmed dead at this moment he said murdock scott and greenwood we know there are more by can't get
to them as yet so murdoch if you remember i got it was making fun of making funny faces when they were on the boat coming in confirmed dead their conversation continued around are
coming task and that the orison was coming to meet us i sat in a trance i couldn't believe that we had lost guy to day it seems crazy that i should think like this why i can only
put it down to the fact that i was still in my own little world of make believe we would win the war without getting any one killed the death of those three guys hit me like a
brick to shock murdock were simply dark dark who i've been chatting with on the way to our start by an after we bumped into becomin now dead scotty from the end tipton that the
motor transport polton like greenwood recently living at nick named faster because of his sleeping habits my mind was blank to the conversation around me johnny nudged me thence
were moving mate this woke me to the reality of it all i was now fully alert for surely there was more to come so now they're getting to another like i said their job has been
doing supporting supporting arms which is basically covering move on a big scale that there dog you got up a goop this is machine gun polton with the milan with the heavy machine
guns they are getting in to elevate positions to cover full another element of tother company or another battalion to go in in a salt atargatis is classic coverless tation and
there in the cover position in most of these situations and at what's going on well we come back to the book thereanent elevated firing position back the book corporal be get
ready i waited for the command sergeantmajor to give the orders to fire the wait was longer than i expected in my fingers state on the trigger frozen waiting as i sat waiting for
the command all their voices came to my ears from among the sounds of battle the voices of the wounded everywhere their cries pitched in with those survivor still struggling and
screaming frantically at each other to move there move here but the wounded were on like anything else their cries could be heard above the uninjured their shouts were desperate
my mind went blank my eyes were wide open with fright for them my mouth dried as i lay there the second seemed like hours their anguished moaning and crying is here in my ears now
as i write no matter what i were others did to try and ignore them they somehow grew seemed grow louder and louder i burned with frustration one victim while later found out with
bad barret seemed so near groaning and shouting help me please don't leave me for fox sake help i can't move some one further along to our left called out for chrissake on dying
don't let them bearing me here please please i shouted out hang on don't leave to move for fox sake keep quiet i started to crawl from my position i wanted to help them buttonment
grab my arm leave it corporal be leave it i looked at him why because a sniper is already picked off about five or six guys that have tried to help the pop says no more okay i
slumped to the ground with a feeling of total helplessness it was a worse feeling that any one can imagine as i tried not to think it was real the cries continued oh god i'll
maintence all mallet please help the crying went on and on some wooded guise had been dragged or had crawled away from the main impaction to be pinned down elsewhere my mind
seethed with anger corporal stand by the semestre the command to follow killed off all the cries and moaning the weapon broke hostem of fire at the argentinian positions three to
five rounds bursting across the summit the steady rate of fire continued as the seam shouted across to change direction using our treasure rouses indicators all six gun opened up
our tracers whipped across the summit to the other end of the mountain the bullet bouncing and ricocheting in all directions so hammering the target their hammer and the the enemy
from where the enemies shooting in her inobviously ameinon of what a wretched description of being within the sound of the voices of our wounded men who you cannot help because
their pin down by snipers aventura they this temenis goes on for a long time there in the supporting position their laying down fathership thousands and thousands and thousands of
rounds back to the book beseeched stop stop worn out we rested our heads on the ground the battle had now been going on for some eleven hours how long we had laid their firing i
did not know the easance over well done a company or moving through to our left now we've covered them and given them all the help we could give the rest is up to them we can't
fire any more i get to them it's too close now it'll be light an hour so pull the gun back and dismounted sir did we get any as bob more than enough he replied and walked away had
we killed we must have i felt nothing afterwards just relaxed i hadn't seen our targets they had been hidden in darkness we hadn't killed at the end of a bayonet or through rifle
sight we had killed with a spray of machine gun bullets it didn't seem personal it was as if the enemy had an existed at all they complete abnesina then yes the callack to a
little bit of a covered position away from where they had been supporting and then here we go back to the buck about seventy meters away the ground exploded in a mass of earth
shrapnel and rock then another shell came over this time further to our right i looked down the hill as the shell exploded and saw an unbelievable to play of flying red sparks
dead be shaped on the ground shook as shell after shell fell behind us the first minutes of shelling were terrifying so they've been visited now now they started we mentioned
there were our tilery range shadwell know what an all absolute horror show artillery is back to the book in the distance a booming sound began that carried over the area someone
screened in coming in coming sure enough the air disappeared there was a wash and the explosion killed any remaining piece shells came in thick and fast i lay watching the red
glowing shrapnelling by now the shape was creeping up towards me the explosions getting so loud i thought they would deafen me the shells will ending about fifty meters away four
or five shells would hit in areinnes o then the next batch would hit about ten meters in nearer the booming from stanley could still be heard in the gaps between the explosions in
our areas as i lay there watching the shrap oetting closer i found myself shaking was it from cold or fright my legs shook and i couldn't control them at all the next soul ended
thirty meters away i curled up into a ball as the shrapnel splinter the rocks around me a piece of shapland he did in my little alcove still burning with fury sizzling into the
dirt by my waist four or five more shells landed around us and then it stopped as if it never begun the air was misty as though a fog it swept over us i lay back praying it was
over in the half light of the false dawn i could now hear shouting all down the hill some guys were screaming like mad one voice went right through me the scream of a man who
knows his about to die all over the hill people were shouting medic menace i was about to crawl from my hold another shell hit the ground i hadn't even heard it coming i fell on
my face and stayed there for a few seconds another shall landed near by this time a shower of dirt fell on my back i crawled back into my hole and curled up again waiting my body
shook uncontrollably the shells landed in six salvos the noise and explosions around me making my head spin as if someone were banging it against the wall i will he the stop but
the shells carried on the landing around me then this second barbundle within minutes ended as suddenly as it had begun so horrible horrible situation that therein and much likely
talk about the germans having there mordred in in their martyred in its a same thing or in the facetie there's obvious train features and so in europe holding a city like there
the the argentinians military is in the city of stanley will they know where there to get a fact from and they know what a good firing position so they have those positions did
the tertiary and they can just start hammering them back to the book i can remember the oehlung behind me moved moved the artillery will be here soon again so now the trio move
sergeant p waited only for me to squeeze myself through the gap before he took off again after we had drawn about four or five steps a hand dropped out of the rocks grabbing at my
ankle and din on the shock of it made us jump instantly sergeant p was back with me we both looked at my feet still holding my den on the was a wounded argy his eyes were staring
at me pleading perhaps full of sorrow sergentee steck stepped back briers i tried to step back but the wounded soldier tightened his grip on me i leaned back a sergeant ponder his
weapon and fired two bullets into the man's head the noise of his weapon echoing around the small gap tom i and johnny were behind me now the argus had bounced quickly as a two
rounds entered him his eyes rolled to the back of his head and his mouth opened to the release of trickle of blood and saliva which ran down his chin on to his shirt collar at the
same time his hand gave up its grasp on my denims and dropped on to my boot i fit my boot as if i was playing football his hand and armed dropped across his body and from his
mouth came a low whistle of air mixed with blood all this took seconds but it seemed like a lifetime to me each date detail remains with me to day the sight of this guide dying at
my feet shocked me but i was growing harder although shaken i felt no remorse at the time the deadly game of war lay up my feet only i mattered the rights or wrongs the rights and
wrongs of war can never be argued from the arm chair decisions are made on the spot questions asked afterwards that lone arg could have been rigged through bubidom or even armed
the kill was done quickly and professionally i felt that i should have acted as quickly as sergeant p come on move he shouted sergeant peace screamed an order for me to follow him
as we trotted further into the clearing we had to jump over the twisted pile of corpses my mind was never nor has since been so alert adrenalin is rushing through my body so
quickly that i felt i was floating with excitement mingled with fear a little further into the clearing lay three or four argentinians visibly shaken shaking visibly close
together on the ground we ran half walked through deadly sickening area of death they looked up as we arrived all had been seriously wounded and were moaning and crying one held
up his hands across his eyes and shouted mamma i shall be thought that we were or i was about to shoot him he will known calling for his mamma in a low whale one argentinian sat
in a trance his eyes wide and staring at nothing tears ran down his face the only sign that he was alive none of them moved all look like they expected to be shot by us but we ran
past the whole area was littered with weapons helmets clothing and food and am a few bullets was overhead and smashed into the rocks are corporal shouted that tumble down as
another another a prominent orateur tumble down was firing at us we ran into a tight cap in the path and all came to an abrupt hope as it was a dead end four five bodies lay
sprawled there close together this time they were own men the camp a flogged para smocks hit my eyes immediately sam wax was standing over them like a guardian screaming at some
of his men to cover the further end of the path and the small crest the sea samand sergeant p exchanged quick words i wasn't listening my mind was totally occupied with looking
into the crags from the enemy i turned to look at her own lads dead on the ground mondon when they tried to rush through this gap i felt both anger and sadness the seams face
showed the strain of having seen most of his company either wounded or shot dead that night fighting was written in every line of his face we all doubled back into the clearing we
had just run through we spread out and waited for a next move the wounded argentinian lay right next to me ten meters away he'd been hittin the chest and screamed as he held the
wound a lad from be company ran across the clearing at him and ran his bayonet through him the screaming argentinian tried to grab the bayonet from him before it took his life our
lad screamed shut up shut up you count the enemy soldier died as the bayonet was withdrawn the lad walked back to his seat among the rocks as if nothing had happened to my right
three argentinians work crying with their heads in their hands with it the dead man's friends at their feet lay one of our lads moaning in pain as a medicated to him i could see
his back was peppered with shrapnel i swung to my left and fell against some rocks i now felt the shock of it all course and how my body i wailed softly my throat feeling like i
wanted to choke my eyes watered and i shook my head to force myself into reality but this was reality i looked for bob and johnny i couldn't see bob but johnny was there staring
right at me our eyes met telling each other that we felt the end had come a lad resting with his rifle pointed toward tumble down turned fell into a type all curling himself up as
he hit the ground screaming in coming in coming we all dropped to the ground crawling behind rocks wherever he could the first shell went over us on to the west side of the
mountain then the shell started to creep up towards us and one thump into the clearing hitting a rock about thirty meters away the ground shook as if we'd been hit by earthquake
shrapnelite pierce the ground or bounced off of rocks all around us gradgrind screamed out strapontin leg to his mates were pulling him into better cover as the shells rained down
us around us again soon after corporal stuart magoffin mcglashan was hit in the back by shrapnel he was later killed by a direct mortar hit as he was being taken to first aid post
i lay there trembling a shells roared over a each explosion shook more fear into us we had centered our group about half way along the mountain the oesoedd us to split up a bit
otherwise a direct arcas a heavy loss three or four anti tank lad's got up and ran to a bunker on the other side of the hill as another salvo came rushing in on us a shell crashed
into the rock above the o sea sending strapdown rock in the opposite direction to us he looked up and all of us as we looked at him expecting him to be dead since the shell it
only landed a few meters from us all he shouted across while that was a naughty one wasn't it we laughed unanimous in appreciation of his complete come the shells came in for over
an hour we just lay there hoping praying that it would end some i lay looking straight into johnny's face who at times would poke out his tone or do his grin again the shelling
stopped as usual as suddenly as it had began i stood up and saw calcareous by rock cave i screamed he looked over and smiled till your or solve here you two he had started to walk
towards this in two or three more shells hit home we all flocked the ground once more the vibration of the explosion shook us on and the earth landed on our backs we jumped up to
see cavaran towards us he jumped into our little opening jesus for me said i that a right night of it too where's johnny crow and skiddy made i asked cavloccio my face and said
johnny's dead he's dead vance killed outright skiddy's been wounded only me left oh for fox say how in the attack a burst around had johnny square in the chest i reckon he was
dead before he had the ground cavilland we carried on chatting about the situation in general request he was brewing up for us when we heard the booming sound again from stanley
in coming someone screened not again johnny shouted we are getting more scared with each bombardment we had the ground and fought get legs arms and bodies more compliance in each
others at this rate they'll get us we can have luck on our side for ever you know i shouted as the shells exploded around us i lay next to cave we both faced the mess tin where a
cup was brewing a shell landed not three meters away sending shapron dirt in our direction rocks and earth fell around us then over us as if we were about to be buried alive both
gavani automatically reached out to cover the messin in the water that was coming to a boil the dirt landed on her hands and the brow was saved every one burst out laughing talk
about a time of crisis tall leavitt johnny shouted brutal the you know great account in a knowe been done gone through a lot of accounts of being shelled to let our toy that's a
that's a very descriptive ingram one and oh it's not over back the book cabinward up and over the hill rickyard us armed with a smack order with every pocket filled with bags for
as a lars we came to a clearing ricky was busy looking to one side of us when suddenly carini heard moaning we stepped up on a ledge and came face to face with a wounded argy
sitting beside him was his friend who obviously wouldn't leave him the wounded soldier had been shot in both knees and in his chest and arms blood showed on all the wounds his
face showed no pain merely pleading his mate stood up and put his hands up no one had seen these two until now i pointed my rifle and bayonet and nodded towards the wounded guy he
started wailing and moaning and put both hands together as if praying to me catholda pistol from his belt well thence wether shoot them or help them what will it be cavor's pistol
and looked at me i raised my rifle and frame the wounded argues head right in the sight the man looked down as if he was expecting deaf know that he could do nothing about it he
wailed louder i lowered my rifle calf he looks like my neighbor i'll help them okay yakimov the find some goodies he walked off i motioned to his mate to sit on the other side of
the wounded gihil i placed my weapon on one side of me and went down to help the wounded argimenes his head looking at my rifle me friend me friend you friend you help my friend
we all friends now he pleaded i looked at him a give my small grin he grinned back and intrust him one bit the wounded guy started to cry it was then that i felt sad sad that i
had fought of killing them and that we were all in this mess together we had different views and different homes but there we were all together i still hated the enemy but just
then when that guy started to cry i felt different we all had to be hard hard to the facts of what was happening to allous killer be killed i made my way back to where our team
was stationed i got there as rickatson down the oi was busy with orders vence were out of water got me johnny asked no reply replied just then captain mason shouted and aioun
peter hadger around i saw him last night with gaein with jine and west sir i shouted perhaps westion captain mason looked at me with serious eyes all the support team or sitting
there looked a captain mason and me i felt something was wrong the oimoi me over i got to him and crouched down corpulence was killed and so was filipesco was meant for your gun
team a flash back of what had happened filled my mind the smock pulled from my back to spinning head the deafness i must have missed by by inches corporal be you okay yes i'm okay
i'll go find head again tapping mason came over sir he said to the os phataks killed also the bars of now found his body i stood up and walked back to my spot i was good at beyond
belief be and always been my mate repent many times together drinking in the shop i medicamento now he restand only a short while ago i've been sitting beside him he said what a
good spot yet now he was dead killed by a shell that was meant for me i'll never forget that i survived while you was killed so they they they do a movement they actually get back
up in two there positions to where they were acter ginge had been when he had been killed going back to book we turned around to where gingerland walked back from the sky line to
find a gap through which to find the gap through it sergeant poled us in this way we avoided being seen from tumble down on the ground i saw bits of clothing and flesh everywhere
resembled a slaughter yard we walked down ten metres or so and there was more and more stuck on the side of a rock was clearly a large piece johnny and i moved closer to it and my
stomach churned as i saw the nose and cheek of a face we looked at each other our eyes wide i put my bannet under the flesh and fitted the ground before bearing a quickly neither
of us spoke i had no doubts and pet and confirmed to me that this was the remains of a mate he told me later that he had died instantly for only the waist down remained i felt
good and beyond belief i had been told of the direct hit that had also killed two others to see it with my own eyes the body and remains will as was another story over walking
over the crest reaume into pat harley with him were one or two others although i the longer member who they were as i was talking to pat i noticed a helmet on the end of the ness
aar planted in the rock face nodding towards this pat mention that he had come up and found judy laying dead baronde the rock face in the adoree lay dark and gory both on their
backs they had died in an open space with the infamous tumble down looking down on them georgia died trying to save dock the bastard sniper had caught him in the open as he
reached him june lay with his mouth slightly open gunhand to his chest and stomach men he died quickly evidence around him showed that he had tried to reach dock he had been had
he been calling for him help himself pat looking cut up took george's fags saying he'd want us to have these rather than the rearason returned or tention to dark who was more
depressing dockhead died quietly quickly he must in fact have been fully aware of his injuries the top part of his skull was blown away the brain visible smashed by a sniper's
bullet only the fragmented skull had prevented the complete collapse of the side of his head how he survived the impact god knows laying beside him or items from the first aid kit
he'd been carrying field dressing half open safety pins in his right hand fingers near the ground his left hand held a more fine serene this had been used the thin needle pointed
towards him and must have been his dying act his radio mike was still attached to his throat reclose friend told me many months later dorfel on his radio the sending switch was
stuck and he was on permanent send to all of us we could hear him gurgling and moaning as he became aware that he been shot badly thence and sent the sigar's not but we were all
helpless a sniper picked at any one that moved geordy tried and lost his life for it we eventually had to turn on to the emergency frequency to a salish communications again doc
had remained conscious and eventually died on a part of that mountain alone with a lad who bravely tried to rescue him so just to explain that you know on our the emphatical a
push to talk button on your radio nenda however he fell he fell and i landed on that postal so lad he was broadcasting his nelly's death and his dying was broadcast over the net
work for every one to hear these guys on they still have to fight in the start gathered gets him intelligence they think there's a counter attack on the invita this this intense
fighting is is a matter of days so everything that were talking about his happening in in a couple of days and now they think that there is a counter attack coming so they did in
they get in position they set the machine guns up from where they think for ye counterattack from the argentine disconnect from and then had they start getting more dear again it
with artillery he regaled back to the book we all had the ground again as a shell landed no sooner had i started to pick myself up when a high pitch scream rushed into my ears a
deadly sound i can still hear it to day i looked down to where the shell had hit in the same area as before the ground was smouldering smoke lifting an evaporating five years away
from the hole lay two bodies beside a one of them will stay with me until i die as paris mock was riddled with smoke escaping from every corner the arms bottom and collar the lad
turned on to his back screaming o god help me help me please i ran down the hill in fright and concern i dropped in my knees by the screaming soldier his eyes met mine did he
register me i only saw denzil denzil the character we all loved i wrenched my eyes to his legs one was hanging off ripped to shreds the bone clearly visible the screaming churned
by stomach it was like nothing at ever heard he tried to look down at his leg don't folking look this way barked lay back down ere me he dropped those back holding his staff sigh
jonason a nine squadron lad came to my side thence i'll do with him you see to him he said pointing to gregsons crag lay very close to denzil clive rushed to help me drag hadn't
any visible wounds he lay quietly as clive tried to talk to him i tried to pull a smokepipes trousers down to jack for a wound densel screamed and moaned behind me help me help me
john was busy seeing to his leg i pulled out my knife and started to cut through craig's dens and quilted articling my friend it cutting was too slow and i knew it but doctor
skidded him beside me pulled out a scissors and started cut through crea's leggings i pulled the ripe material to one side we had reached the skin there is legs had massive last
rations in all directions spilling muscle and bone but there wasn't hardly any blood the doctor shouted me to tie his muscles together i pulled out my field dressings and tied the
last raciest er the doctor was joined by a medicine denzil i was half conscious of cries of medicament tcher bearer all down the hill cried was lying still i slid up beside him
and looked into his face it was pale with no color at all his eyes stared into my face you'll be okay crag just hang on mate hang on clavellosa stroking his forehead repeating my
warrants tried to new hear me i shouted the doctor pulled and to frantically at crag's clothing thing to reach more obvious wounds crag you'll be okay hang on he looked at me and
a slight smile came across his face his eyes laughed at me bright and wild his grin spread then all expression faded he faded away gregg a don't keep in there his eyes closed he
died then and there he was a young soldier twenty years of age the records will say private crag jones the doctor motioned a bar to get him on and away then sol was also lifted
and carried away i fell on to my bottom jointly pademelon the shoulder i tried to get up and fell on my knees again i hadn't realized until then that i was crying crying without
knowing it i cried with all the pain and sadness the didn't seem fair john i came to my side and pick me up he picked up my weapons started guide me to our bunker again i glanced
at steve and sass sass was crying as well and steve had his head buried in his hands i stumbled to our bunker weeping when i sat down steve wake put around his arm around me and
whispered you don't a brave thing hence i couldn't have gone down there after those shells landed the nisame spot you don't alright made his gesture didn't register i cried with
exhaustion hatred and pity gragnano remained with me to day craigie and densest a leg and so nearly as life for people right or tell this of experiences of this kind i know now
that they can never really tell the facts for any one to totally understand for often the reader is wrapped in his own make believe game a warm for me personally this five minute
experience changed my whole life and attitude towards war orswell always be fought and i would go again for my belief but i hope never again to see a face fade from me he took
nearly a year after this war procreate to go before i slept nearly a year to wipe out dense smoother and a scream one till i die i will remain a part of me and because it is warm
there is no time to mourn and soon after that they are marching for their final assault on stanley which is the capital city going back to the book after we had tabbed about one
thousand meters with wireless ridge clearly visible above us the absence of troops and the silence of guns and stand me begin to produce some puzzled looks along the line of
support company our owsehold for a hole we collapsed on the frosty ground to wait for orders i looked up at the sky thinking what now whose fucked up this time let's just get this
part started a few shouts came down the line i leant forward and saw that the lines breaking up in the men laughing sergeant make mathews residing behind it beside me what's going
on macki asked pucknose vance a shouting continued as messages passed down towards us the dry three or four positions down from us suddenly turned round and shouted the winkers of
surrendered a white flag is flying over stanley put your braves on an ax an ax the last part of the message had an ironic ring because for some of the task force the whole thing
had seemed like an exercise so an ax is a term we we say all diamond training when the when you on to stop the exercise you say and acencheres so that's one of those things were
it seemed like for some of the guys there are just on this big exercise now and so a literally said he at anaxenor the exercise right now niani looked at other bales i said we
stood up to see the remains of three pair of coming off long den in their red braces joy washed through my body nikonich other nothing more was said the message had reached every
one i slipped off my helmet and put on my bray which it stayed close to hand throughout as i stood looking down a moody brook the red brace stuck out like sore foams against the
grass i felt proud the bray on my head meant more than any taste army at ever frown at me it meant victory the feeling is indescribable now that's that and they spend obviously
it's over but not like you just get to step in and its instant we over the sametime there be go through some pretty significant looting and he talks about that a bunch and an he
kind of kind of comes to goes kind of baurand looting and there all just gathering up war trophies and whatever they can find a value and they go into this one a sort of a bunker
position to loo and they on one side of the bunker it's all a bunch of weapons and the other side is all their kind of more personal type items and they they have so many weapons
at they don't need any more so they go and they start taking stuff from the other side then a little like i said personal items i think it was and they walk out of there and then
the next day they find out that the side with the weapons on it was all boydom which seven found the explosive so they went in their firepikes up like two or three things off or
that it was his oppressor plate a pressure release so they were picked up through through things they were gotten killed his i him in his true got killed and date he realizes
nobody talks about his acasto greedy i wasn't even thinking any more they go through that they eventually they get done they ship away and eventually end up through highland and
then from the from a different in they fly back to back to england and he were going back to the book we stepped off the plain and already a bride norton the next morning we were
hit by the english summer in full blaze as we entered the airport lounge the doors were swung open through screaming crowd of relatives to charge towards us my mother climbed over
chairs to hug me with all the rest of my family in close pursuit i wife came up to me i was ten and made on sure by all the noise and shouting it made me scared in a peculiar way
karen looked hard and almost angry hello vine was all i got from her so is home obviously his wife was a little bit ten about some things back to the book he actually before go
back to bequeathe do a little quick greeting with their family but then they get back on a bus with the rest of the the ah people the italian members and they start driving back
to their compound back the book always very quiet on the journey being this countryside made me feel like an alien johnny tapped my shoulder from behind vince the trees man look
at them i looked at the trees they were part of what was making me feel like an alien they were all in full bloom bright green leaves in the wind there was traffic on the roads
shop people walking about doing their own thing and all seemed unreal after only three months away it was a shock to see civilization again the odd thing was i felt anger anger
every one for doing their own thing it was as if something in my head was urging me a shout of them as they walked along the streets hey you licking your fucking ice creams
there's a fucking lot of anger gustomer there friends had been killed but all your interested in is yourselves just frustration i know the general public was concerned but it just
didn't seem like it then i wasn't expecting a metal or even a pattle i really didn't know what to expect even so i found it hard to be calm there was no way i couldn't relax if i
had been asked to go to a torn ireland i would have gone more than anything i felt the pinch of no longer having my friends around me we had been together so tightly over the last
few months that it was i now i had had a set an arm severed the buddy buddy system that we had needed to literally survive wasn't there any more and the sheltered life now seemed
too far did now seemed to me far to boring to endure i made a point of not talking about my experiences to any member of my family including my wife but i do remember sitting up
in bed an evening turning my wife and giving her a very mild and sight into what had really happened i was sick to death of the presses us and of the publicity of a country still
high on a war i told carinata happened to denzil and jones the blank look she gave me with a half smile told me she was an interested and couldn't understand me and all i never
said anything again i tried to look at it from her point of view instead she was sick of the war of the army and of me going away whenever i bumped into one of the lads i see more
at home and relaxed talking our private language with him than i did with civies and my own family the i had had my own way i would have gone out on the biggest bender but i knew
that was the easy way out telettes remind me of one soldiers wore you know you come back and there's no doubt when you come back from war you're going to feel some of this i am
minitarries some of this when you see civiliandom licking their ice cream cones it's good it's going to it's good it it's a rough transition ye back to the book there is no doubt
that i was slowly on winding over the long leave but the board him also gave me more time to think about my experiences horse of all were my nightmares about the war at first they
came nightly later they faded and returned intermittently i was had the same dream of denzil smock and jones's face passing before me i would wake up in a bed so wet that a bucket
of water might have been thrown over me the night mares lasted about six months or so to day i can see and understand everything that has happened to me i know now that i wasn't
alone the most comforting words i ever had to help me did not come from any of my family my family work concerned but could never really understand what i was going through those
words came from my friends in the pub as we drank during leave johnny turned me in said vince a that if you turned in the night you know that made me sit up and see clearly but i
wasn't alone and we are not alone you're stronger so that something that i i know i hear from a lot of that and maybe you're thinking that this is something you are experienced in
that no one else is not true not only our other guys goin through it other guys if always gone through it you're not alone back to the book i fully believe that we isaaco
performed the most excellent of tasks i am fully behind the decision to send a task force and i wouldn't hesitate to fight again for a country and its beliefs people who wind yabu
the decisions taken in war they weren't involved in to me are the most misguided of all the most striking events through affect me throughout the war were obviously the deaths of
my friends eight years ago i regarded those friends as those in two and three pairs only now after learning about others experiences and after watching and reading others accounts
i see that the whole task force was my friend i watched a marine sergeant and a t documentary his eyes showing the emotion of his story and the sight told me we were all the same
i still feel a bit angry that the wounded went unnoticed a propaganda fell on the task forces arrival home showed only the paris in the marines and the navy home coming can you
remember seeing the badly wounded coming through the gates i think not nobody wants to see the effects of carnage never again will i think that war is just a gain like the showed
on t v it is very different from how is portrayed in books and films we call ourselves into the killing game don't we i member very clearly watching from a window of my quarters
five or six kids playing a war game some revendre sed in combat deranging small toy machine guns i watched with interest in their tactics in the taking a cardboard box he was
meant to be it and i heheld position the two kids defending rolled over and pretended to die when overrun by the goodies after being tagged by their friends they got up to resume
the game from me high restarted to practice what is in human nature to defend and kill the one big difference between their game and the real one that udn't get up after really
being shot or the legal killing of people and can be very scary war is kill or be killed we also must remember that a lot of the command structure at junior rank level can almost
be too difficult to maintain in the heat of battle then what becomes a winning factor is the termination of the private soldier his lone get up and go and do attitude we must take
our hats off to the junior ranks of all services for there the backbone of the warmson in that they have to kill a close range we are lucky to have what is perhaps one of the best
fighting forces in the world thanks to our system of training and to our discipline even to day i feel frustration about the war i was so cachuca on with the fight in the stanley
that the argentinian surrender may be disappointed as well as happy i try very hard to keep out of fist fights now as i wouldn't like to lose myself control them i alone in
feeling this or other hundreds were thousands of other time bombs out there other experienced veterans may be sympathetic to all of said we can only wait for the next war now to
practise the art of killing again i hope in there now finally i must co a first world war veteran who told me so many years before i joined the army you'll like the army bent but
not warm it's horrible bay he was right i didn't like it then again i did and i'm going to close this book out with the beginning of this book and it reads this book is dedicated
to the soldiers of three para rescored ship and determination throughout the campaign make the author proud to serve with them so that the members of three pero never returned or
not forgotten their names and ages at death in action are listed below private richard abson military medal nineteen years old private gerald bull eighteen private jacon burt
seventeen private joan crow twenty one private mark dodsworth twenty four private anthony green wood twenty two private kneel grows eighteen private peterheader twenty two lance
corporal peter higgs twenty three corpl stephen hope twenty seven private timothy jenkins nineteen private draggons twenty private stewart laying twenty man's corporal christopher
love it twenty four corporal cries marthy twenty seven sergeant in maka victoria cross twenty nine corpl stuart macallan twenty seven man's corral james murdoch twenty five ran
corporal david scott tony for private en scrivens seventeen corporal ale shaw twenty five private philip west nineteen and you notice those names those men there ages and their
ranks there all their old junior ranks the one sergeant sergeant e mackay who was a word the victoria cross for storming up fifty caliber machine gun my position but the rest of
those men are private and land corporals and opals the young man and asked kipling pointed out they're no plaster saints by any stretch but dan they might not be safe but if known
men like resinous them with my eyes and as i have said and as this tale of the falklands confirms a once again or is hell in it a hell that can bring out the worst in men but
acorn out the best an don't forget these young men who like so many others answered the call fought then died in that awful place to protect their brothers and further more and if
you read this book you will realize that we all have a little bit more to give mental and physically you can go further you can push harder you can be more roofless if you have to
be and you can also show more mercy you can be better i can be better weaken all be better and we most often get better not from the easy things and not from the good times but
from the hard times then the challenges and the suffering in life that pushes you to your breaking point in demands that you give absolutely everything you have but you have to
keep going so no matter what keeking and i think that's all that i've got four tanit the ruffle crazy how am how i got that crazy that bishops in like that short period of time
the it is an at any wee had remembered that that's what we have on perspective from one squad prione patoon and there was no feed the story of two gallon the one where the
battalion commander e h jones won the victoria cross by the way what about that what about that story i and not to mention the romaines that were down there is well one about
their stores i it it hates the thing that just it's i still can't wrap my head around the amount of untold stories that there are in annotates the fact of the stories but to think
that these cause this is a distaste very short time compared to vietnam or world war two or year one or even the wars that we've been fighting to day that if the one for years an
years an years but it's not so much at this story that that that life would missing the story but these people existed everywhere a navis everywhere an end ye it's it's it's
incredible to take a look at the book by the book and read it and its eye actually i got into some of the graphic stuff to some of the some of the interaction them when they're
not in combat is actually it's real creed and i seen you know i didn't cover much of it not that i i wonder get too more of the combat on trast's kind of idoneis that i had i
didn't cover as much a sort of just the straight up crew behave here than they that did i made their on a bull for a while they're drinking there gontran with a come home is there
are some there some some cool behavior and and things that are taking place and that's kind of why i jumped on the opportunity to read tommy boy by kipling because that's totally
true that you are they say in a kind of a way of saying that in the supines we we say this with that guy in case of war break glass kind of gun toileting we don't want him around
on time we anemometer here on this side the glad but if i yet if something happened he got break glass and we'll get this and it onatoga out now one what's jacked up about that is
that's that played more veal when i was first in the supines and the more the the old reader i got the more i realized that that that's old cut it doesn't really work what you
need is a some one that you can have out of the glass and that learned in what you have to do is a leader is you take those guys that instead of putting those guys in a glass jar
or behind a ginger in a glass box somewhere and keep mercator what you do these you do what you do with a freak and wild dog you have to drain them you have to bring them out
detecative than the monks the human hesitate can isolate get interact the rose of guide that you have to keep in you know in behind a glass barrier from the rest of world the
chances of you needing him for that type of situation are pretty minimal so what about all the other situations that he be beneficial for it so what you have to do is a leader is
teach those guys that have the attitude of you know omesteads nothing but a straight way or don't care about anything else i'm here to go to war all dowie me me alone what you
want to do you want to get those guys out in the world socializing like a good attacked dog that that's not got a bite anything in front of its going to actually bite what you
want it to bite and then you have something that's a much more valuable not only for you as a leader but for them cuauh better opportunity so there is still a few guys left in the
old mould of incas of war break glass but most the guys now are or actually more versatile than that and i don't pay when i was young i was probably fall had his lay wasn't
exactly the guy you wanted to throw out in for of the admiral to look at right and say all this or manacurin here it's you know i wouldn't ave been that way now as though old riot
the more i recognized how important having that both sides of the of the coin covered and you could just be of freaking rampaging berserker all the time you had to actually be
professional yet to be a professional and so i definitely had my share of time spent in that lone m barkin the goobut what's good is i think guy knew that about me and that
therefore when i came up to and said a man look we got way out to better than that or he we we can't be acting like that they knew that i wasn't common to them from a from a a
what's that word from the ivory tower he wasn't looking down on him like a i can't believe you are out were we don't knock out way where naval representative it was come to like
that i was come to do he were professionals we i get we want to get hired to do jobs we want to kill bad guys we go get missions forgot to get misioneros those were the things
that that you know i kind of passed on to to my god was hey that's cool be a frog man but be a discipline froidefond then that can represent it and i think that's another thing in
the book when there's no war on it on how are ter you with her there the kind of mediation yea and and then when the war breaks out they go even more maniac to and it almost like
they get into that mode of liotard's anyway now were to die where you you die we just you don't prompters but after you go to war for all exeter time you like actually you're not
going to die actually wet there's a decent chance you are going to live and there's a decent chance that you need to continue to build you know the the reputation of the seal pens
not just as were killers but were professional ye so and we shall reputation book and we do by the way think so professional killers is right um but ye it's a great book there's a
lot to learn from it there not to learn again i i that that the way they're going from peace time and again i know that they were doing towards in ireland at the time and that was
no joke and they took catalina and there was many a soldier's killed in an order an island but that wasn't comparable to what they went through in the fagans it was interesting to
see how they handled approaching albacore first time ye not a part that i think these books really bring to light is just the physical conditions that that they go into even
duffingness letotti and every one allnatt like this oh yes so i'm like you know all my clothes are all wet from my sweat and usually that's not part of the movie when you watch a
move you now for i like these guises for feet are falling off here he cause it's cold and i'm not sitting in a combat outpost in remade and it was night time right the coolest
part of the day and i i wasn't doing anything and i hadn't been doing anything while i was literally sitting in a combat or post you know the boys rout in a overwashed was back to
i'd been corniani did it it wasn't that it wasn't that establish of a common pushed yet so i still had all my gear ran but i was a sitting there i can sing here for let's call it
two three four hours and i was sitting there in a i just kind of put my i with sitting down and i angled my back to like a forty five degree nonshoot at the ground it kinda
resting a little bit and as i looked down i was full athletic sweat dripping off me like cities and i wasn't doing anything yet lets that's the ballaarat where you know not to
mention gets legs getting blown off all this stuff will these yeah mens greasy ye it some the physical and the other big thing is the physical conditioning that you need to be
prepared for that is is humping with a rock agony that's a big deal page of that you know they don't show a lot of that now in any kind of military training out do show it then
don't show it enough they should they should i mean that we just didn't know the trip up piosity and in we got our boots bootlets on sir and it's it's if you're not conditioned
for that it's going to be hard and you can make it through a day maybe you can make it tough tree days but i'll see you not carrying i was telling my my kids up there up in the
mountains you are not carrying any wait compared to what you carry with up when you have dear we out of the week o tacco don't have a erol at thirty pounds may be the if you're
just if you're just camping or whatever got a couple you got a couple of leaders a water you got a sleeping bag on a ground pat you've got some trail max maybe a little bit more
food but you're talking thirty forty pounds has yeou get deer up brow i would wag eyes with before we send him out on training operations at wem training operations and they there
the rockshire a hundred and ten pounds you're you're alone you're your body orahood ah what am o magazines yonag aines in amo gernau year sixty seventy pounds then you put water
in that you're talking i think i think i waited like three ten or something like one seriously like reecognition hotel heavy un unrotting his part to where you shocks himself
because he wants to get rid of the messopotamia he falls down right sancos ious teeterin an we got to help on the critticke up her risonavan moved yea yea that they or any happen
to ah we are on a training exercise and to bruiser and i got put down they said a jocosa so i own and i just lay there then lay came over to throw me in the back of the
humiliation don irately got it all bodies whose i can't i aremoved jocko selmoon did wait it under like okay yep you know you were like making up extort to be dead will freelike
you like i kittalti patent in intrioni wanted to guy that bepeppered to put a great in my mouth setters yet so also well speaking of lobsterish oh maybe you could tell some
stories about downshoot this seraient to know they no soared did you get into drinking pomegranite white tea and subsequently jackaway t because your wife is a britonette shall
her and i on baini's didn't really because they drink tea with milk and i don't yet but you know her you give all right but i'll she doesn't get credit for that one did she drink
collegiates she drank her but to get one she said a couple of tea couperin thing she said he who would theaetetus cured everything is the same thing like that i don't know who
that was the if is like a row i don't remember specifically where i got the first couple of jack a white tea from but i do remember that it was in the desert when i was i was
appertaining command and i was would be giving the deep rest or sitting through the guy's briefs and we be gone on like two three four hours asleep so he needed a little bit of
cheek her somebody is it somewhere i got em judge some teeth it it wasn't yet jocatus pomerelia pomeraye and it's where i for any i drank i was like one his nice ear this is nice
i cold on wait was it cold the above i definitely had a cold cause you're at the desert you don't want to drink hot to onless you british yet a conteradicted avignon hot tea no
matter what the revenants i don't really like hot tea at much to the whole island they don't really like it like you can't go to rest or off some is to tootered yeh yeh we
undenoted at many times there yet for pemigewasset you your kenward raising onyway what you got it will want to support herself first off i'm goin to talk about my little stories
not sorcery long one no posting or tell you that is he cattlebrand kettle bells right so i ferson's i got t get all the the design one the growler findint think it ever be i used
the regular before that other gems but anyway i get the the cool ones right on to emanate a pitcher o me an i have on my look like excoriate prima concedere or thought patterns
already your hittaway again in a candidate but i got the chim ones those are what one good turn whenever the succeeding killer when up to the wharf just the other day i ordered
the grille m what's that one seventy something potamogeton so i got a pair in corporate that it i'm goin strong a man i'm getting good at the catalogue got a need the eighty eight
like i got ye wait what is the one that that it's big foot right iterant by the biggest capitals a currently have ye or forty killograms yet like the eighty is waitin ety
something postpone two pounds per kilogram okay so sakwan do the man if you want by nonelevator oh i don't know i'm bethune for that and give in my current exercise broken with
him i do seem to be up here does our doing that exercise yea he ameloriate or or tarenyowagon i got and so to so look at otto recommend it if you're in the atwells you anna you
know get your kettle wills on get on at once the cooler that's my opinion o locasto while i got a jump rope and stuff like that too oh you know what i'll say did hundred burpys
intent minute oh primitae you as ye es see remember last anginoid it brandon just seen aco is now a notoriously bad cardio not a not like that in order you credit even you credit
but still we could use that as sort of a statement to say the echo could do i come on bread yes actually i think the statement is look a far echo has come to alfaraxi the
statement we make i just made it taylerson and do a hundred boofalo of people thinking i want to bepainted minutes is a joke actually yeah i couldn't i could dig it be i mean i've
been doing bury's for for a while not that kind you not the same my if they're just in my routine aetat many but familiar with him so i'm like okay you can you know how you can
kind of gauge like okay i do this many solitude take out of you you know keniogy thirty twenty ten yes so how age how i did it was twenty five one minute rest twenty five one
mineress twenty five one man rest fifteen and then liketo minimised athlete in oholekha get ridic and then a ten and actually sorry he leven i did a hundred and one buries and it
was nine minutes lack tuskorora which she got hereat i found here is i don't know my cardito or bed is better than it has been bettolini just in general even togither stuff or
silver stuff also unyame when you run in on unannounced nonsalable manelike to seringueiras you either way so ye didn't want to one in nimitation wish i wasn't breathing as hard
as may be you might think like fiounala but the the issue wasn't to be was like just punish up a hollow and all her weiniawska ye ye but i feel legs weird yet legs fully shoulders
or not chest like i think he would do it a push up on every you know second invent that much for me but strangely my shoulders and his part that like wealthea there ere like
sorensen weird way his weird man not less teiresias is yes filosofo young work out there were isis good and then so going you two by sea the one a uidetur and a row of my tank
cause twenty five was i didn't know ilson to be like him in a do it's not a rhino long are you taking to a hundred in roah three minutes and thirty three seconds if i'm not takin
to tread it yes one's a thing though he is a thing i think it's a thing i noathing or not that's what massuet ion will gassaway really is a perpetim as far as i gasolene i first
started doing bores i would have to apriorist touch the ground in junior okay so what about my hands do they have to go but my head or in latuere yes i mireille clap over the head
o a clap so what i mean over the head like jack nicely as to be above the head so figuier does it have to be todohado this i do a little in everything and ending at tired i am of
aytos when every tired yet i cackles barely half an anatapein like like a ficiency in front of my bellies he litui you want to be like tactical yet ill i mean a really technical
perfect burt would be like both hands clapping up above your head as you rothieden in the air ye ye have you too many of those we can't do as me as though not mertelle at all
another kind of a point for inspecting the dynamic jump like a high jump a and not a teammate in real big huge huge and the elworth line till um for me here's the line did your
hands above your head did your feet off the ground that's it right i think that's yes i did i airwaves you're like how you do jump a three inches the but what if you know that if
you want to do that which you so put your ear for you put your one thirty five on the ground a bar bell with one thirty five honan you hop over that face time castiron a
antithetically otasite's another way if you're going out rocchi i like when you can't cheat but you can't cheat that a ray you have to jump over and that's what's cool about like
bureaus seegooche storica care how you do it chesterton in an giorgione the bar of that anacaona do in between those two yet after lurewell then i have t be honest then here's my
disclaimer the push of it i didn't touch such witches to the grown henlike her i mean was it like was it like an incomplete probably some of them were like to have a noi guess i
don't do i'm not like every single time sittee think it's to your discretion or antisalts like that now when you on i do eralet face it if we wanted to you know get some giesboro
a world's drexel and sure yes but we we i think you're right you know aberteiri know that repeated her right yeah so my and disanointed of honesty so i in touching my bashers the
thing if i was too if it on the ushapti you touch your chest over it every time you actually slow down enough that it's not hide your cartas much ye puttylike i mean i guess added
up yeah i guess and you don't what i saw though when i saw the guy doing the burkes was on i am i think it's disregard for me be mat or something and he's doing it and after a
while he starts banging his chest like oh yes john my god you're getting a bounce on the bed shouting see tenatious something he needn't what that could be easier for me if i did
on a mat i think it'd be easier then having to stop your body wait in our church you know but is going to be what you used to for sure but i didn't touch my chest and there were
like four of them that i didn't put like four because the when i started the set on my cochose you know there i didn't put my hands above my head so it then resahounds who maybe
like four five only did it hackman but i feel like if i would have put my hands above my head on those for it when he made a difference that's what i think but if i'm like you
know the kind where i'm fuming at the muster you know i'm homing this girl she's doing the perfect bury maintien chest of the grand in fact when she went cestigan her hands came
up off the ground i let for like a second and on dingiswayo the cosette game day push up under a and i refereeing yet i just call out wearisomely have gamerer days gadadhar you
call him to do that every day but either way she's doing that and then she is going into the and her hands are straight in the air and let chestatee hossefross a said he i amost
not an artaxes i put the clip in a etherial all checked off the end she shed the perform oesmo full on and i'm thinking when i see that compared to the hundred and one that i did
not light in day man emily like a he's not doing this whole war here he at very my hands are gone they're goin like this so there but my head or a godlike brand new pick worth is
doing eighty and go twelve on intermedial leap on each one like a beast and at all him out and he's actually in initiatory for any teetotal had a well the gold is now hundred
among a follow the protocol i know when i do a hundred yet like interrupting or offer that is very good yes i'm afollowin the fissure all i'll report back on way back to catlett's
a good one but junosuke that a good one on the unit one that's the coolin by opinion hescock it out go on it tuckham slashed jocko on spare yourself and the patals good wisitors
when you buy these books the jockeys then i criminology ah the website jacopo cast up come and sherman marched said ye man is all the tinterton yet heavy and i'll have nothing
insolent apart of the one chinaman or a right salaries at to i i i garwell you know you like this at the naniwa where you were like this is just one story there you know i eat and
it's a slily a sliver really it is it's a sliprail and dying and will get rich on guy there is four or five thousand british servicemen down there yet it's one o five one four
thousand to this this is my comparison eating you driving in traffic on the street whatever the freeway and all you see his cars on my gar infinite cars traffic is everywhere just
carson cars and cars and that's nothing new in fact kind of irritating really but if you just take one little step like in your mind and and look in the car and looked up a person
in as they and made sometimes to people in there and sometimes little little family each one of those people has their whole life story fall the little ups and downs and special
things and you know erscheinung les and triumph all that stuff dungeon of the little things as a little guy in there and and even then that's nobody compared to every body
flattened make but seemed kind of trivial you know compared to like gustare way i like her dies one that of police a megot at a electrodes any way back to these books if you if
you want to get any of these books one or more whatever there are listed by episode on the website stock a pothouse content and by the way restorator he recurred reinecourt sir i
said to echo you know you heard the boat the the the what's it saying don't judge a book by its cover the cover of this boy could judge it by mosaistes on to hell by land corporal
vinson bramley and the picture on the cover looks like hell it looks like it's a picture of him it's blown up roping but yeah you not to judge a book by its cover you can tell
chaseborough to yeh looks like he took it straight up excursions toll on that cover but if you want this book with its ulianov sat a little town on the top meaume books from
potestates books whatever it's called boleros there by episode quick though there get it through there gewaesser yourself of course and ah and potatoes it amazon also revolooters
shop any other shop being tabanus bones when you wisepate good ale selfsupporting orter be ten yeah like what like a like a one hundred terribile adrian mich taconite fortified
grand o not forty five grand for to fire a line forty decens which when you get or like a land mark and you by a long more from emouvantes on eminent i yet what are they do the be
come with a big porkless truck and belong lowertown or no ill i'm sorry i'm thinking driving along more oh you they do through the packet up atearenona i don't know you probably
can't be bokara i laying it at the notation for the ex what either way he indostan boom click through there takes a two seconds to small action really big reached by way of the
fort i i actually even sinking at that is actually not the best not now iseult you in a law you would think that but you'd be wrong i think a better year of her the expression
death by a thousand cuts yes it's more like that even though the life by a thousand click click sir yes the portioning some alien i dig it they all had up together ye es a sodium
little but it's big but it have to go to any was all the other ones yes so now ye vpon a little silly uns full ugrasena her life strayed super by this little action from the
yenowines actually the solimaes i'm clicking through i'm an listen i'm listening to this potestatis support him by one these books on the omayyads tread no whatever i click
through the web site just that two seconds of going to the website first clicking through that's like so much potential in my click just like the the sodium so much potential
energy in their special and your maker with the water you make you with that as on the click boom support i follow i reaching booneville there you know it that's on my poinier one
for egging that on and some maharanee you in undershirts now what you can do to fix in extent or you substance you could subscribe to the pacas on i do instate your angle a play
if you have an already of a ten well i won't say seems obvious but ye if you don't you heave it yet that i rooted yet cool stepped in all that stuff all so i knew to subscribe to
allen i've been in putting some stuff this is kind of weird to me because we don't have that many you to be subscribers i forget how i i lout it's not a town not as many people as
asinos yeah yeah a forsure but not the lowe of people are like on you to but you know i go i'm no watch tineddu know jock an you too eh like that your less compelled to that
especially if you're not unuttahed them to lead it yeou know that something but confider like if you never go where i was working with a group that last week and there full on
caught up on the poast every single episode legit does getting after it and i mentioned the deleted seeing that came out in an eight and there are three of none of maine's that
you not of emain it and that's that's a good sea they funny anyway yeous fan language getreten val you know how you like eating cut least rickoff calipolis on you are off now you
are on your albania going off at nyso subscribed to the youth if you're one too or i if you if you think it monition you too good start there subscribed the ill can be a first
subscription and don't think that it's a halatane inscription to you nothing one click oh man i want clear you don't money just click on click and as the thing it's a total non
commitment situation you can literally subscribe and ten seconds later you cannot suspend sub stripe than you can do that again you does and her wise exhales should verily narrow
had more action by reaction situation another one also joculator sought i say a quiet howsever to her droves moved to an well ha but am actually back to the tubroses of venusia
verginella e kaytherine on the point there is other little vedas that you put together secure we that a concert some people call me nugets sure joliettes they're on the feet away
sufardar called joculator jock was stored a come this is sure some there's some traveling on this some tom prestiges on there i reaped there were at a bumper stickers and idnow
that anyway up loathsome more on her there are some rash guards on there dope ye romans there are some has there are they there should be a esalay know and i still have a i think
a day you notithe should be on your home arterial i way he got it seacoast it is and i'm not saying to support nepotism our stuff i'm not saying that i'm saying on oats check at
the stuff on their canadian yard art de stuff sells itself i said or uniting my references no than an i's born in canada too so that can can offer you not a tatius dean been ye
hae all they can eat in a yarn art all a lad we don't sell that in the we held itself its own although to this so it be potentially from canada you are and maybe we can tache it
up if you like something get something good with support also psychologico what i clodore is if you don't know it is an album with tracks cocote and what he does is on the track
he's talking you each track as to each track he talkin to you about different stuff a weakness is different weakness or so really this is what you need is the outrams uff doesn't
cut it yes he has john loaning you your oatpatch that i used as i right now and in the later thus that it will maybe terrenatans i know how they there's a controversy about for i
been in the two piece you know just say a gouffre egging you on to the agitation you brother up to any way what is really for this album is in our campaign against weakness here a
that's the new free not journey in more to campaigns of yet when as andy good bread he gave you though resident faint journey on a long when i am a message deanside quit and
journey sad campanian weakness which is actually from the pot cast were all legislators a big time he thinks any for that one but that's the one amusing for right nor until like a
better one comes up if that's even possible don't your champion against weakness every sing will dick for the rest o your life now that you're in the game right is further rest
your life came a last for ever yea is this no discharge from the war yeamans lay humanistic gaditana so if you gently you don't early every day or you know fighting we come
lontano over much and you got that day were supposed to be a burly and you want to you just don't feel like it that's really the thing you don't feel like it you know so jocoser
for a for you with a little spot die it stuff procrastinations stuff or out is not creativity stumped out a big one and i don't listen to the creativity one that's where you feel
like you are now that he's the thing i'm like one of those things you know how like you know how i would say you do like a a pimple or something o it i know i'm going deep butter
if you theism people they're like im on a popoi some people they are like no leave it alone let it go away as you shouldn't saying so i like her i'm the latter when i come to
treat tiv i'm like men i'm not creaverit block don't don't force it don't like get jack on here telling me you pragmatically by the way but jallonkadoo saying fully it's a little
bit more than that but inutility i'm not saying that's the best way in fact i made is actuated your missing another good todays be radii just made but that's kind of a good thing
about this is that that's not what it is now a hole you explain like you know part of it and this is a total terrorizing situation but you said it in a really good way before when
you're like memorized your work out on it that i see that is like that's not you're not in sprains iring me to go work out your panoramically telling that i isenland to leave wage
an effective war on that little weakness that that's what it is a track doing this for all endorsation as i categorical willing as a god also i have some other onions now if you
want a connaitre pot cast a call origin a man dot com for your jugend we are now unified fully with origin made america like me i would say like echoes actually made in canada no
i was technically made in amerikay close just malaria made america like echo and me and delivered wait altilia canada can they get stuff from ordinance yolanda just like me the
rooks there your origin man dot com for you gines and check him out also if you want to check us out alive if you want to check out orginalite no what kind of company is telling
you he come to our factory as you were all about you don't kind of cat company a company you were by ofter in farmington maine august twenty third come on up eight two eight two
enter into the origin camp be mercian camp catinat mist it off donet year but on august twenty third were up there were becoming being an out we be getting after it up at the
factor hecacombs you with that's all about a also and i i'll i'll just i'll disputes out i was kind of hesitating but listen we have some supplements coming for you as soon as we
as soon as as it is i started with p who is my partner at originators we kind o started talking as soon as we soon as so looked like we were going to solidify a deal we started we
started at he's got these god little supplement light which did the opportunity gave the opportunity gives the opportune for me design the supplements so little while back
leatatafili designed em made em went on him leggit and we got the form of his own and were going to reap upperton now so in a little while you're goin to see you see the jaca line
sonacai out he he just think thee so echoes had his lie but it's come in in where allemand out ye they're good to go so anyways well i'm goin let what i need to do what we need to
watch out for me is the demand so well he knows unapt him up she can order him they won't be out until mid september but if you order him earlier the yard the better weaken
support you rawdie kindlike the book situation yes ye yes ah so that's it also jackaway tea youannotated an sport yourself and if you want a dead lift in the neighborhood of eight
thousand pounds you got jock a white tea if you don't want to deditus and pounds that's cool drink something else you drink something else that's that's fine if you want to
support your brain we got books to one sport your kids brain get him the band enbright and her body and her life yet a way the war your kid i get to kinchow kids come up to me and
i send her books in there all vireos they're changing ye you will change your kid we'll get all the path no kidding ye and it's good for the panteus you can reference that eloise
you you know it's leetle even my youngest daughter her friends are reading it into they come over in their light barlerioides so that's cruel too a ye give it your kids whoever
your neighborhood kids whatever to the holoku you so they can get stronger and faster con smarter and better which is a really big thing to give a kid her everything plonny don't
with you you i'm going to make you stronger faster stronger and better smarteth manner the human being is that a good thing to give some one foresees said dot i also if you want
the first edition of desponding was represented men we can order it soon and there's so many questions that i could ask all the time are in this book there answered in his book of
food and take her out there in there all out of him ye there in there all everyone that asked me about all different marlors a real in her sweet were asleep it's in there how do
you make up through it's in there rest recovery it's in there all the stuff is in there it's all in there and there's a whole section is like what i'm thinking about on a daily
basis so jacket out at the doelen will like what year things people want to know on that thinking deal for some reason he asked me like will you think it nerisse it that's why
wrote that book yet well like any situation where it's like your face with a decision to do this thing and it's hard but you know has to be done or should be done or whatever and
to somitimes where you just when you shift or some one tell the sotelo at look at it this way and you know like my dad will always say do it and it'll be done who in a enbank all
it took was really thinking a certain way be compared to year and any at me see me see says do it and any one yet true you get that buck from amazon from barnstable whatever
little book store is around you go and tell em to get it or you consider on the watch like passerby a sepoy i also tremors ip if so going strong why is extreme or ships so going
strong he is it because the mass of advertising campaign that we put under the gone york times and the wall street journal now actually we didn't do that you know why it's going
strong coutard a mouth that's what it's going strong for because one person gets it they buy it for this person apperson by the someone else at present by a further team that's
why we're still so in that thing like crazy why and why was it going through hard about because it were punctually works is not theoretical it is pragmatic its functional in all
make it you bet better leader and it'll make your team better period in it over over over in that's why it's so late so get yourself and your team so you can implement that any
can win then for your business if you're business need some leadership assistance or guidance or wants to improve an what's to go from doing well to do in all some astron that's a
leap consulting me la babin j b done dave burge welcome put your team into full attack mode yevgenia infidel on front dotcom now we have the muster coming this is important
terreforte in fifteen ten sen diego i think it seventy may be seventy five per cent sold out at this time in fact the hotel is sold out so we've got rooms at another only till you
got me register the booklock or two away so if you want to come it's going to sell out so register fast you can do that excursion comb will you waiting for the master or while
you're waiting to see us up in maine at the origin factory grand opening where we may stuff in a murtairean that if you want to link up with us and and may be just crusa little
bit you can find a spray on the interweb the tether the insterment echoes at ale charles and i am a jackall i talked about the snap chap last time in get around to it i mean i'm
going to it's coming professed and plus my wasn't round my kids siddartha instruct me that's cool and good i was in any george jaws sugarcanes construct me ye no hae there for
that though so he probably stick with the kits be asked tacticis we're not what it and finally a all the service men and women are round the world for our military and from our
proud allies thank you for going forward and protecting our way of life to the fire fighters and a police and to the other law enforcement and the ants and first respondes thank
you for protecting us here it home in the rest of you that rout there listening that are facing challenges of our own struggling with your own battles large antmoe those battles
might be fight heart keep going and keep getting after it so until next time this is echo and jack o
