this is jacopo cast number eighty nine with echo charles and me joaille giddying echo good evening i was sitting in my tactical operations sent in remote alone i was staring at a
document on my computer and i had to keep wiping tears from my face as i read it the document had been submitted to me by the delta potenciana it was an award recommendation for
my common so when the award was the medal of honor for my king he had been a sitting on an outcropping of a roof in south remoti on an over watch in a grenade which had been
thrown from an unseen location actually hit him in the chest and fell to the ground and front of him and he could have jumped away from the grenade and he could have saved himself
but if he had done that his team mates that were position next to him they would have been exposed to that last so onstead of moving away from the grenade mighty jump all the
grenade he smothered it and he absorbed its leaf a explosion thereby saving our timetes and at the same time sacrificing his own life the morning that it happened september twenty
ninth two thousand and six i got a call from the batalion commander from the first on the fisicas officer and leader that i respected and admired and this element from delicta
been in the field receiving fire and returning fire motion the morning which was nothing new or nothing unusual but it had escalated in a new that there had been trouble and
wintoun called me told me that there benaben fight and then he went down but list of my men describing quickly what their owns were and what their status was and and pretty much
tell me that they were going to be okay until he got to mighty and i could hear a shift in his voice it became very grave and very serious and accelerate the sympathy in it and i
knew what was coming mighty got hit bad he got it really bad jocko penalties going to make it an my heart jumped through my chest and then the extent back down on my stomach and
then erupted into my brain in a maddening rush of anger and horror and got ranching sadness and i grabbed all that insanity and all that emotion and i pulled it back into my mind
and i held it down there while i uttered the only words that i could muster roger out sir and when the delta platoon commander was one of my best friends and a very close friend
of my geese when he called me we were mechanical we had worked to do do de brief me i listened we discuss the follow up in the next steps in the resupply in the operation impact
of the casualties we held it together and the next day i talked to one of the seal officers that my head saved a doctor on a pole because he was in germany already with the other
seal that had been wounded badly on the roof top both of whom would have been dead if it hadn't been from mike they were only wounded and because of that they were heading home i
when i talked to his young officer he explained to me what happened with perfect clarity mietje away and saved himself but he did not his own leg movement was toward the grenade
might he did not hesitate what kind of a man does that and when i was a brand new guy at seal team one i began to learn and understand what kind of man did that she as a young
enlisted at cultiwate there were two pictures on the quarter deck just to the pictures were of seal team ones medal of honor recipients lieutenant bob carrie and petiole second
class might forten and we young eyes we memorized their names as well as the name of the seal team to metal vanesi he ruteni tom north and we read their citations over and over
again in deep brief them amongst ourselves but we young enlisted seals we focused on on my short he was an enlisted man like we were and we heard about him then he was a legend
not only for his actions but for his reputation as a seal as an operator as a leader as an all around bad as frog man that we all aspired to be as a young enlisted seal he was the
mark he was the example he was my for in a few months after checking in to seal team one i was in virginia beach i was going to a school at the navy base there on little creek in
one day after work we went to a place called papa's pup now mind you i wasn't even old enough to get in but the the chief stuck me in there and as we are sitting there having some
food and talking i had full of other seals walked in and andy were wearing their full dress choker white and one of them was a big monster of a man in the nerac of ribbons up to
his shoulder and the medal of honor around his neck and i knew exactly who it was it was my for right there in front amedeo the seal the ultimate hero standing there in the flesh
there my chief looked and he saw how awestruck i was he told me go ver there and say hi which i did now again i was a new gutenthal my tried it yet and at hetman at the time as i
have accounted over and over again we knew guy's pretty much got treated like worthless scum but when i can't do myself to my thorton slap me on the back and said welcome to the
team and it told me on from the one to him from ten one to be then he bought me beer and treat me like i was his brother the man himself treating of the thetic new guy like me
like i was one of his long lost bodies and i never forgot that attitude and that humility but i would see my fornication over the years and i and swear it always seemed like he
remembered me at least in my mind but years later he actually did get to know me a little bit when mighty monster wards parents received the metal vaner for president bush in the
white house i was with my tharragain and after that solemn ceremony well we went and we drank and we raised hell and we raised our glasses to mike into the rest of our fallen
brothers and make fortin treated me and the rest of our task one the same way he treated me when i first met him like we were all brothers and that night now that i had seen
combat myself and seeing with my own eyes the bravery and the selflessness and the sacrifice that is the very core of our community i finally understood why my thorton treated us
all like brothers to because we were and we are in with that eats on absolute honour to have here to night i hear o a legend a patriot and some one i'm so proud to be able to call
brother retired seal and metalene ipin my thought sir welcome aboard thanks shooes think so and i saw my honour to be here too am you are or unbuyable warrior as my kimono i tell
um my love goes out to george and sally and everybody there but i that was an unbelievable day to have tom me me there and a call on a hum and a potentate on all the other team
makes there it was an a lot different than when i received my maisonette he was an honour that these young men forgetting the respect they deserve so much and then the bring the
whole tamon at i received my medals only tommy and tommy receipts nose only me so god bless em the navy there filly getting it right and then tom honore's great young men like my
kimono and had by her oh so you've recently had a book come out which is awesome and you wrote it with your fellow tematan and fellow metal vaner winter tom norse and also with
another sealed dick couch and and the book is called by honour bound on and you'll for me i know talking about this before the pacas before started according to even though you
want to know the gettee good deep briefs in the seal teams and you'd think that there was a a a fault with all these great de briefs and that book plain to you everything that
happened on certain missions specially highly important missions to think that that existed but it actually doesn't exist and for me this book was like the big detail de brief
that i always wanted to have you know not only the operation that you did we tole but also going that tommy conducted by himself and and both of them are de so well detailed in
here and it's just the fenomeno book to get that kind of granular detail of what you live through that like i said even being in the yelpings isself returners i never had as good
of an understanding at all as i have these operations now so thank you for writing it and you know i want to dive into a little bit because that's kind of what i do on this hot
cast is doiterin so it's you know i i had to jump around the little bit but just what talking about year background and where you came from growing up and in south carolina a
correct is born and raised in the hills of some carolina and my my father was my ear of all time genoese grad education and my dead or was the fellow paine from thirty nine and he
got left in the philippines at como cart of pulled out and ah he was one of the raiders over there as they did a movie and ah i see only had a six grade occasion but he is a guy
that everybody respected he had his own company and am i used to ask cowhouse been worked for my father berton thirty years you know he said because he and my dad always too told
me this and that's what i tried to do when i was in the team take here your people your people will take care of you and my mother gave his love and religion and and ah but daddy
was a hard as rock as a but you had the greatest respect for that man in everybody else i knew my father had the same respect for him now you mention that your dad you had a six
ghetto obviously he was as a hero deniscu guion was able to put things together in his life and with it he ever talk about what he did in the pi not until been wounded several
times and doris second tour overseas and i said he sit i think you'll understand this i said daddy i understood the first time i reserve wounded spot ah me nooned an idee thirty
nine or one did in nineteen sixty nine or wounded and in to day's war i take it brenoralt that war sucks anway look at it ye that there's no doubt about that i guess your dad
wanted you to earn being able to hear good stories from him but you got to get wounded before imitate you to eat more than one at the handbarrow that now i'm going to the book a
little bit this is you talking i didn't do that well in school i couldn't read and i still have problems with it i'm disliking back then they didn't call it that you were just
don't be the man that said we couldn't keep up in school i did o can math but that was probably the only thing i loved history all the wise i did poorly i had to repeat my
sophomore year in high school and that really hurt my pride so it's no wonder i got in with the wrong crowd and started getting in a trouble nothing serious but we re mischievous
southern country boys drinking beer and making bad decisions the sheriff was out of the house a few times and there were where the time or two in juvenile court anacaona classes i
had seventy two absences in my senior year in high school at that's a pretty eferypotty le sit record well la you could only miss thirty to the all magically failed but on it
think that one in to see me coming back salakot that the slight she went and thank god ah we found out what he reis and ah i actually i've never even read the book my wife read it
to me five times and i make the changes and stuff like that but i do have it own tape and i hear something i understand it but orating to say in that as a slight young man no i
you you may have it tough but you can redoubtful business man i would always do the ranks and i got a commission and i did this and i'm just trying to save there's only one in a
war i tell these kids when they going through training but you know that is on one person school stop you and not yureself there's always to get across that ob colander it around
it a top of it and when way the other set all that something stopped you and ah and for you to move fordingham a better life for you yourself in your family also passmore right
there now speaking of moving forward i i it's i you had like the class a case of the judge telling you all right son you can either ah join the navy or were in find out a place
that you're not going to like so much at home walliant know this the twenty years later my father politely in the june i'll judge was there were friends with each other i am not
at all the cake your first major decision good a jew and all ah basely six months and on and on down a hall or i could turn round and make the first major to session in my life
and i'd saw it crazy mood five salmon brothers turn we work too that i saw the move that navy frogmen with richard wetmore and i turn round i said i always want to be a youth from
man and as i saluted and the guide and the guy that at an listen me was a second class machine as mate and ned his name is ned johnson and when he retired he was back as a eaton
he was the senior in listed for recruiting the state of south carolina a teller buddy i he made might thornthwaite did at that dead so you come in and if you do you want bo camp
and his straight to both or he goes have budge guys called it on it your any real ismen under all on under water delaserre train i was supposed to go alatana straight from there
they said no we had you have to go to outside i like a saved my dislike he was pretty bad and i had to get a ten point waver just to get into the teams and they must have needed
people pretty damn bad because i follow got my way or housing hawaii and i i can hang back to corn on one through training and i was seeking about you know going through training
the heresies for you come in through training we had some instructors who were not only good teachers but they were real characters there was then a liar who is part american
indian and a plank calderton he called us pale faces enterest at all in fear of instructor olivier then there was dick all in a black seal who was the navy boxing champion he once
spared mahomedan le when all was asked once who hid in the hardest he said it was a chief petty officer in the in the u s navy named dick allen and the new was instructor
terremoto we called mother moy it seemed as if he was always watching us making sure everything we did was that we put out a hundred per cent to his thinking about during this was
when when i went through other ninety ninety one and there was clearly there were some rules in place but also the instructors kind of did what they wanted to in the command
wasn't watched him there's clearly there's more rules and over sight now i i've seen that with my own eyes but i can't even imagine where it was like when you were going through
him at the instructors mustiest been able to do it ever the hell they wanted to do to you guidate you then all over the most edisoniana life i tell you and i was just with terry
more the last two days of course is reunion to weaken right i tarry still looked slugglish as he did back in and dick allen is to hang us from the full up bar and i had twenty son
the stomach but i take if you do keep her hands loose i mean if you keep your hands lucy kill you then a course to dick and then a venedig both have passed into but there the
their memories and a is a funny thing about life itself you know and if it's not what you've done this to respect you want to gain from the tea mates and dick and terry and of
venal grain gave my respect in my love and i though all along as might form a littesters will continue going off so that's what i is all i want for my that there's not my peers to
remember whom it thornton's i and that's in vats what those gods talk me yes with those guys well as guy's vietnam that's where they a corean war at both a little bit every
vietnam besides time hatching in there to these cotoneaster teams of salt pepper as tribulation no strangers and the moon oo know m le actually vanes one original sells in
nineteen sixty two and ah he went over to namefor backed in the din know what they would do with the silent not pretty time so you get off you get down with buds and going to the
book here they were twenty two guys who graduated in my class eighteen from the original hundred and twenty nine i remember how lucky and proud i felt as i was given orders to see
team one even back then it was no small thing being a navy seal but it's one thing to be a seal and yet another to do the work of the seal i thought that was an important high
light there of like when you get done with buds it's just the beginning really correctes just us cried open the door ah then the negotiator them door and are to get through the
door the other frieseland like like you are saying we're a nobody back then you know veneda couple towards a etnam you were just trash as has ever certoso going to book my first
button with charlie paton were in twenty from nineteen sixty nine to or from december nineteen o nine for july nineteen seventy we worked out of a place called down island and it
was a great deployment we had solid petun officers in our porton patio leading patrobas bury each in the finest diaperers a team won when i made my first appoint he was my sea
daddy it was the same for all was on first combat tour and it was an active tor seems at every other night we'd be out most of the time we made contact i remember we took down a
few province level veicolo types and one time we had a good intelligence we were ill take down an entire vs grenade factory it was great so that was your first a point what when
you talk about bearing very innocent actually ah how connatal about as well as his osses new guys even the veterans we worshipped buryins great leader in the great teacher well
was it about him that made him just that that made you guys were member of and reveries much i i think i like you or talked about me and your gratiner dugon which i don't deserve
that but a very was a leader he he took care everybody and um he's the guy kindlike i looked up to my father he was my sea daddy and he he was always there for all of us and me
and now i last night tom boy hand and me and may hampton might look rose and ah and how kirkendall were all getting up pictures together an then he remembering the the the great
guy and we were all were talking about vericour very felt a passed away a few years ago and i heether guy you know it's like a saving he'll always been all our conversations in
the twas somebody we all looked up to you know so is the great leadership i mean that he showed us in and not just a leadership as a leader but the leisures ip he showed us to try
be a better person in and at the point it what we guys doin you guys are doing we got to point off a boat we got going at helicopters you guys will on foot patrol little bit every
little bit of everything foot for trolls basically sampans of whalers by that time we folliot the ellices we true in the lake and then the the medium support salutor craft and
horsehead the mighty mow a lot our stuff will was the mighty mount ait was a a mike big mitannian the a you see that although the umgearbeitet twenty inches out so if you get hit
by an art g he had exploded there and set a going through the whole i we did a lot of a like i was working down that a donsella with steep rise with the cases skulpat then we
didn't have that many sell so we would help each other we nettete we need help would converse our people or watrous and that ah tom would send the guy that effaced be going so
we'd like rich lona myself and a bunch of the gosiute help other patents and stuff and will you a sixty gutter i was a sixty out of stoner sixty and i and i carried a corfiote but
always cures we scaped with me all the time and a pistol and a back up as i go back up in a back unto you again so i ah you know so we have funny things you know and you and you
learn from each other so on like that arm that i am when we hit that ager natatory mike he say as jumped out he had a sixteen is he he did like down it didn't like down is a a
hitch in his as he jumped out of the boat is barefoot in the water in the reverend he's death her diction is gellie when he hear goliath now i keep in all my god i cascadell
learned and might was a great insidiosa our asses many times and the but oh everybody did there did their job is just as as you were saying aloud tea afford a and my life was
saved by people i might lycosae people in my pationate back each other up all the time and and it was a super active um actually how how cirkis talking about you here in the book
this how talking i can remember more than one fire fight where we were shooting and ducking sometimes more ducking than shooting but mike would be right there working that sixty
with a big grin on his face there were plenty of times when i was really scared but am not sure might ever was he was reliable enbraved but a not sure he ever knew or understood
fear like the rest of us he was a great tea made and my god he was strong none of us could believe how much ambleterre sometimes he'd go out with a thousand rounds or more that's
close to eighty pounds of just ammo and heawin canals with that load he just shrug and say you don't want your sixty gunners runner amado you we got through a pretty active to
pull him in with no one getting killed then a couple of guys stayed behind to break in the new pitoni the rest of us packed up and left they were two of our best and one of them
was killed in a halo crash with three other seals we took it hard when rich alone was killed but i think my took it the hardest michalski who really cared for his team mates so so
even with all that action you guys we guys went through the deployment with you know what did you take a few wounded guys but it always out of the only booby was killed and
actually we were is down on his slow and red sango was working with a gulf fountain and and that was when the helicopter went down and uh course when you come off i'll hit eliseos
shut down your craft and check the road or blaze calls backed in the roder blade could have a hole that could last for thirty men in for forty five or an hour and ah the hehehe
pole the the hello won to get back for a birthday party or something and the heel found in excellaws killed and and ah ah darlin was killed and tometimes was killed a umanitari
tartanas killed so that was one of our base we all five gayante not forward lost five and i went down and ah and identified the bodies and ah it was you know i i only had one bad
dream of my whole life and it was after identifying the caserias completely gone and in a way i could identify me at a scorn as art and ah but get out a law so initiated as you
know as well as i do that like my kind and every time you know every time i lose even a new kid to day which i've been out speaking to their class and stuff like it you lose a
lower bit more your heart on hamish for my heart i got to lose better it it takes it out of you i mean it is a i don't want to see anybody ever get hurt her the spacily a also a
love one and there all there no their life or just as the portentous the new kids to day as rich in all those guys were in port to me back then you you come home from that
depotment and you go into a hilton contra which we actooal about on her with roger had an cause we still we went out as a a at sihon and i was in training self we still called at
corant was on to twenty something years later and i never even can made the connection and and roger i talked about the fact that you now some of the training that you guys
implemented back there the the ah the point man course we your walking through in the trip wires of her and all that we still did that the lot of the damalay still did um an
insolated what you did when you got home you went into that training sell being contrainte aching at you you mention her that you arn't a lot being instructor and i always i was
agree with that in fact when when i was in the soltys no one wanted to go to the training of parker i we all wanted to just a play just to porpoise when i took over the training i
was told guys or you want to be you know if you want a master what you do you've got to go in teaching and um yells mentioned all heine and when i went through buds when we are at
sankolinsin every night when the sun goes down we'd sing the song good night all huegonots all here good night all here wherever you may be and i never knew and still don't know
who all he eisener than the camp is called out here's called camp al her real that and and honestly i make my kid sing this song wanton goes down ah my mean my kids we we sing
this off i'm sure you heard to day shyly combersation allen and dave best of friends and ours are another mentor like burying not come and a they went to class two of you it
second the fifties and terrerola care and stuff and a he led by example again you know but in his kind of like a when he talks better be like he of hutterites sleeping ears wide
open and is as a attell me one day says you know good lord gave you one mouth to ears and two eyes to use eighty per cent of that and educate inshufficiently all right exit and
then you you from cora you had a chance you a back and depotentialed don't hate going to eat in the times we took the train the tie sells as long with dick flannigan and one of
the finest alfereces tom boy an was so great officer great leader and owls with us on that estries and woollen or so close and a we trained the tidy tea in the silting taxes and
then they went up and the work of the borders to salian say about that yet an understood and then you got home from that and now it looked like the warpeton kind of winding down
with any work full filters to point any more no more sipontum what were going over a we were sending an enlisted eldonian advisers and a like a a bunch of the guise at the world
there with meal that tour was a hat was at the reunion and of his is kintang together and and talk with all on you know and talk about ah but we've lost a lot of those guys which
have passed in to age or cancer something in the know his is a linger faint about the reunion on a note of s o getting any damoiseau better get out see your shipmates and he time
you get a chance at em the alden you mentioned and just to every one knows what that that those are like vietnamese sautevanin sealed and aldines for a lenin die as what it
actually in bed the musicale a warrior from the ears something like aletheia so you got a chance to go back again and he is funny because typical seal he knows that oh we did you
go back on the pimodan yes i will go and ah i'm going back the books or when i got to vietnam this time i spent close to a week at no ring working with the eld and in this there
getting a field for the what they were doing in the field i'd work with a vietnamese on my first toward back to nineteen sixty nine i and i saw a few familiar faces you have to
hand it to those guys for them there were no combat rotations life was combat twenty four seven year in year out they fought until they were killed or as it worked out in the end
we lost the war tologoi working with and uh i think it's the you get into the relationship that you form of these guys which was you know they were all the brothers do they rode
to cure them they took care and of course reasoned fillettino stroll of to day is called and can which i explained the book there were i'd work with him on previous shoresmen
operations and they were there there just like one of us i mean they took care of me so i resiliation gang and quarante art doesn't go the you work with the four deluded in the
seals and so you get to up to we not i i say that right till we note as creon okay so you get to two non this is where you're going to be working out of and again you're not to
see tom this is a only different situation and what you had there in two known if i gathered it all correctly had five enlisted seals from seal pond and then you had to seal team
two officers and in plots with those two seldom to officers who were sound like they were more junior guys may be was a first appointment but then forming or showed up as well as
the icy yip u shalyapin shut come nor shall ye at all the sills outyield diversory body and an tommy nelson was our lieutenant commander and of three and he was the head of all
the sills tommy was the senior sill operator in the country than we had to ride macombe and another lieutenant it was there that narrow they were all east coast got ye now we had
all i can't we had a more like um eighteen and wasted gaines and we broke it up oh ah and i gariheagaon and harry conical what with the lieutenant youth down one thing than
rhinewine be was our ball and i stayed up and so i everybody had had many tours had met down south than he i had no hemos tours in them and i stayed up north a with the rincon by
then tommy would go back and forth at a toronaeans of course it was hard to get at aastrid of calls of you know it was pretty at that time we were fighting in cintre and wasted
and all that stuff they were trying to overtake it but oh we're still warerooms on and am you had what to squads of aldine and we made up a squad of eldinhope i think we had a we
had more eldena we separate those guys to ah i know when we would on the operation a woody awas we always had a silly known insertion instruction craft and wood he had a a we only
had three ellis on the out with us but he had another six or eight on a home the boat the boat if we need him re supplies him so an end and i got imagine this case again it's half
the book of by honour bound is we've been throwing tommy nor his name around here and when he showed up to work with you guys he had been in country for some peer to time and he
had done this this multiple pilot rescue operations the bet twenty one mission in tommy was a a sailor i knew about his reputation and he knew by a reputation and i was kind o
funny tom inalert one tom and that was an operation that we were of course the best of friends and ah ah an on a wearisome tommy was put in for metalina recent mitted i in an
eurato the mellow water later on and a great friend any man an eraser and ah i look back on the officers at the leadership we had on like as tantamount cabins idly and and tommy
and and a ride my copy in and then norm carly in an you know even when we were in six with more since and stuff like that it was an a we had some great leaders you know in all
those guys took care of their people as what i really am looked up to them for for always being there for the troops you know they may cheer your ass out but nobody else calling
to so thou one time he shows up they are you get these start getting the the mission asking for his mission that becomes you now the mission and the paris peace talks were going
on but you know talk tom was saying that there is no at the operation level you guys like that that's great but it's not changing anything for us in the ground meanwhile there you
know they're their tacking away city and ah the is hard and so tom goes down he gets called down by a by the commodore shyly shyly too to get him astonishing and this is this is
ah tom nor talking uncle dave had me take a seat in his office at her that's a togatae the common order to you be i never called any my common or an uncle at least not to the
falusaine dave had me take a seat as office my catel yet something on his mind tom he said i entombed or of the elden wants to run a seal reconnoisance mission to the mouth of the
pantry quant river that right chantry reanty river specifically he and disappear or want to know about the defences and enemy disposition around quatre naval base and he wants a
vietnamese alden officer to head up the reconnoissance team i want you run me operation to insure the mission gets done properly but this needs to be seen as veteran so that was
the task to doing a reconnoisance correct pretty normal operation of precedented it sounds like you guys were running those type of operations fairly regularly year a basely the
envied or dymov to cross to caitive so that was the one that and we knew and they were trying to take over contre again and ah and they attacked on way said he that was in april
and this was an october who in this same was going down so he knew was hot heavy up there but ah ah tommy said yes never said no uncle dayanand you guys decide or or tom you know
let you know he let's do a small a small propriete five guys for a two mericans and three enemy your obviously the two are you and and tom norris and then the three the three guys
that you're going to take with you the three veeneece going to take with you a two amilear hand selected garcon nolan or i he now was another officer the other guy was an officer
rright grog and he was lieutenant of her to tell the story in here ah he's called lieutenant on she would lie at your halibut will put a different name there because he can a made
the operation coach sat agogo it ah so here's the basic concept of operations low roll the funny part of it a tommy at all do the mission if you let me choose who i will not take
cold i back down we had a rotation basically where everybody got a chance to go in the file and with always went in the field with the new guise and stuff and and ah he set out
like them make a choice and uncle day said well i bet i know it is and he said oh we've never operated together and you saw betjumer and you said ah yes sir that's who won't
atable me on i'll brace it and actually woody was supposed to be going in on that operation and i but we took moody on the a the insertion struction of means of transportation
that's that's that's bill wood driftwood talaria and we will gain to what is wrong was um here's that hearse over view of the mission and this is distorting was not a particularly
difficult mission and it was certainly something we done before so we knew the drill in general is about a fifty mile transit from two enanthe in our boats with a macbeath knots
that was a little more than six hours sertula a six our transit the plan was to get well out to sea so no one on the beach could know which direction we were heading north or
south once we turned in this case north we'd make our way up the coast then turned west back into shore then we hoped to be on station off the southern bank of the covet river
soon as possible after dark we venteveo and paddle in close to shore and reverberates and then swim the last a swim ashore from the river boats we did sir do our job and get out
before first light we didn't have to be back at two non before first light but we sure as had gone to be back across the beach and away from the coast before so up i was told i'd
have off shore navy support in the way of two destroyers so he running a little late in getting out of their unhasped ly on call fire support so that's a real standard mission
that you know when i first got to teonoe did that not not be exact same thing and not real but we train it all the time you're going to get on you know mark fives and you're going
to have a zodiac on there that you're going to get a lot closer to be and when you do goes the beach to drop off the zodiac and you get a get a little it close to each and then
the last need do is go out the boat swim and you go to your operation so kind to stand hard stuff and you know he says it's not something you hadn't done before correct here's
what you were talking about it when you're talking about the aldens going back to the book the elden ends came in all varieties of experience and capability and courage on this
operation we have three very good ones we tanquam was a first rate alban and officer and dang and can be altercantes in the listed all done no relation were to guys eyed work with
on my first tour and was with them again into enon dagon can were good to go but the problem was calm the officer don't we clang was heard and thus here is the insiste problem was
that litenie quan he liked her get after a little bit sometimes alas slack all of us so may be had two most hedrik the night before and though it would he would he get out some
kind of accident what he is rude and a waler ran into the pier he had his head in his abused both his eyes and he could he seized her both completely shut so lush this is how we
got the other dealer which i'd never worked with but a but i'd work many tours i mean anomaly towards but many operations with the other two guys and edward with can and he was
really good but of course he was unable to make the obson they are brought in another young also which i had never operated with and his other dustery one knows it were going
through this the other officer that you now brought on that you hadn't worked but with before his name was lieutenant and yeasty saying that right now but i'm not gabelroth venise
near a high in me other that's a utah so he had that the navy was out to see the two things a navy was posed to help you with was helping you guys do navigation because store in
this time no g p s e sozomen bears behave as an obviously fire support if you need it i feel base what the rectitude is victory sin and as for a ship takes a rat or plunge and
they shoot her in and they see where we are and in the docks which are thirty and nine foot concrete junks as latian ah then they would see where we were they ned shoots then we
would take our compass and we go in there ah one of the ship shooting as they were trying to overtake quatrain and he left and went down south to help give god far support a ton
of the help the vietnamese army and marine court a hole of the in vain i when that no one guy shut the ashmead he was about three degrees of but when you're fifty miles off the
beach three grass a lot dear and oh everybody said ah the sea o said server rushed actually was the u ben high river which was actually a nor feet not so when we wouldn't insert
it were wet north of the clodian now you had talked about a bill wood driftwood your referring to minor as at any important point here and this is something we always try to hold
true to ah you will always put like a seal with your assets if you can manage it so you've got a seal out there on the boats that are going to be recovering you because it's a guy
that you know it's got that you trust that you know of these noreen's in this right and ah you know it's a good lesson learned for anybody do an operation right now on ill care
what you or your with if you're in the bring cord you're using army asset try and put a lease on off sir with their army if you're an army or using mariners of trying put a lease
on all sir same thing with special operations cause those the guys that speak your language they're going to be able to predict what you're going to do if things are going
sideways it's just it's just a smart move to do um and then you don't you talk about how these things started going wrong and you're you're off the coast and instead of being a
weary thought you were your attavanti which is the sly soft to the ben eyes so he and tom me and i discuss it and ah he salgo ahead go in we'll do what we call a horse shoe out
we'll go in so many clicks and go north and then go back to the peg to the ocean and and try to if we can not pick up ah you know if we could do to were doing a body snatcht
resourse by a bientot your best intelligence that way so and we used to do direct action missions to go capture bad guys in but we didn't call him body snatches and i'm kind of
wishing we did it sounds a lot better than toorgenef those bodies and that operations i would a false or better about it but so it and tactically you're going in it's pretty
normal um you swim in it's pretty normal you get on the beach and he re go back to the book this is you talking i was carrying the starlight scope a bulky first generation night
vision devised that allowed you to see relatively well at night was a sight of a loaf of bread and weight eight pounds tommy told me to scout to beat arise if i could find any of
features were looking forward expecting to find like the mouth of the river i went north about two hundred yards from our position in the same distance is south and with the
starlight scope i could see good ways up and down the beach no river mouth and nothing looked familiar tommed inland just a short distance so let the area over with his binoculars
neither of us saw anything that indicated we were here supposed to be so and in like you said you you know you're the wrong space but you might as well do it reconnoisance while
you're there and that's kind of the the decision that's made um i was thinking about this too so i was thinking you guys only a five guys and the the idea behind that must have
been he let's travel light and ween maneuvered quick and then i got to teasles what you were carrying here's what mike was carrying might taken i was the mule on a recumbent i
carried a car fifteen carbine and just over eight hundred rounds of five five six ammunition along with an assortment of the dozen fragmentation seas and smoke grenades i also had
three law rockets and a starlight scope all was carried a medical kit and inflatable beauty tea over the head life as i also had our stores ilence weapon a twenty two caliber
automatic pistol in a suppressor attached the barrel we called it the hush poppy so not exactly light for for egotism i was thinking as we are trying to stay all slick but that's
that's no joke what you were carrying now as your betony start seeing fires and eventually you see movement you see bunkers and an tommy says i think it's about time we get the
heck out of here you say roger that sir it's about zero three hundred youthe hours of darkness left and you didn't to a stream for in start moving towards the beach well for three
different reasons one the two show low self so wet we knew that we were within a batanaea prime then we saw tanks and gun in got in placement so we knew that we were way north of
word were supposed to be so off by getting in the stream the tied ranges eighteen feet over there so i carnt was running out so he knew it was going out to the ocean so we got in
there but keepable sewed in there we could move a lot faster and the water and we didn't have the hopeful we wouldn't a bumpin any of the enemy out there which were starting to
move around at that time in the morning some uh nay start her in something correct and you know you hope patrol and you see what you see is a envied a bunch of em it canacapatirri
invisente soldiers and they and and correctly if i'm wrong but from their position to any where you had moved to in the stream now you look at them and and as you moved to the
water you are going to be exposed is that is that the situation well exall there were in a base camp type bones a quick reaction force agathe main forces behind us ah a course as
that exposed us conacal all for southern round so to the north of us which we now regain farther north there is that big lagoon as it has its the map show and i so we would have a
to our eastern faint we had the ocean to the western plant we had the the logan and into the south we had the bad guys that we knew of and to the north we had some sand dunes and
ah but we we could see a a after east the one big backer you could see nothing but flat beat so we feed be our best of adjective to move up there and tommy got top of the cash we
told us a big sand in but actually was a aznaoure built a lead tunnels down inside of it some in that to one that you do reconnu found that bunker found the money brought tommy
there tommy went up there with the radio which was dan and that gave us you know a course back then as the radioscope see see sansonet which you so ye ye and he's chinaman calms
back to a wood i bear back to the ship but that she needed she was a new ports in the s morgan watershoots were then we had we fondly got woody but wood he was done off the mouth
of the clavie he thought you after he got their bearings sulloway off from her woe so at this point can you guys are you guys are in that bunker and clown comes from a back and he
says die way nora with a starlight scope i see two men coming down the beach there quite a way off but their head in our way so then yet you seem like you come up with a plan
right there what you're going to do jewish to me i'm like thinking well i'll i'll let you brief what your plan was but you see two bad guys come and down the beach you an't your
idea is cool its time to do our body snaps a correct and i feared ah ah the all sir would name is mentioned he was but was a good side he's like five nine within and in a strong i
mean that let it go right and i the other vietnamese are the feet of his officer as serve that county guy so i put him down on the beach because the as the high water line in
these guys were walking up and down the high water line and the other guy was about a hundred a hundred and fifty a hundred yards ahead of the guy catheter goes walkup the sand is
and i figured we got to make sure we knock him out but the other guys just walk in by cause he just toolington them to oh the g coslin looking around and ah so i said i hated sent
candone hush puppy and i quantitate and i set him down and i said i'm on disguise the walk by us but when the other guy i'll take him out and then i had quaerit me quin after i i
knocked him out cold and when the clan got him he take em up and and a secured him conoys are the two enemy or walking on the beach and a pretty good distance apart lucy i'm goin
to get me an quango get this guy we'll capture him god and then lieutenant or disease you don't get the other guy corrigan you do said kill im right no i said that if you could
take him take him by god it let us right on the shore line so the waves were breaking this making a lot of a taglionis and then and then the other guys up in the sand empties at
the high water and walking around out like that do i knew he would be the last one there but we had to make sure we took him out for sure i and then i told the all sire could go
up and take this guy out or eliminate him or just make sure he didn't go back to the village cause the villages of one down the beach and ah he ah he stood up nellie a main in
veneese stopped come here he's at an accent for the seven o the bad guide does he's got a a no a twenty two long hush poppy which is about from here crosses room and ah you know
he's after like that and in the gay open fire on him he's running back towards tom in the andarun ing past him cause i know he's on his way the village and as i say in the book
you know there were they have radio like everybody had some what sometimes they would walthew ah ah sin a information at you some any rounds in the sky in somebody dance but they
changed all the time but at that pertotion shot to round so i hopefully that didn't mean something better good and ah we got to the opening of the ah he went across the creek
uhehe creek bed and he was heading straight to the entrance to the village and i dropped down the one knee at two shots at him in in the back i fell down an next thing all hell to
fifty to seventy five bad guys for chasing us down and on and i sent back to tommy and we got back and i would i moved out on the point as the book picks plants on waytensee you
when you grabbed are now you hadn't backed tatami and that's in that big sort of bunker doomed an yet intend now all you are collocation big don't bunker ah no actually i'm out on
the very point okay and tommy was a one top of the baron it ain't and they had taken or the guy we did capture up there on humors up there so i moved the officer to rear security
and told on vicentine but tom ago and i put clown over on my eastern flank wishes beside the ocean so was about fifty feet ahead of him fifty yards ahead of him so i could cover i
could see everybody coming in so i was kind of like the point but i kept on over to only ocean side he tried to flank me he would not them off then i could see them look goon over
here a case the lagoon and so i could see everything out and tronomy and now the amy start coming for you came in for and and and you start you know engaged him taking him down
and engaged in and what i'd do i'd come up over here i'd droll over and come up somewhere else i told her nadaver here i moved back to another grenade i moved forward up
wherethedevilsh'd by that time and am i gave mom frost precincts how many people we had that didn't know we had twelve her fifteen or othello again in time marshong from up there
but tommy is on the radio trying to get communications and what time you are trying to get communications from a distant a lad is out a little bit that the ships had been told hey
we might eat fire support crutwell when you a whatever you set up fire support for yourself you always set up what we call priestridden ted firing position sell hay we you know
you name him whatever you're going to name him a b c d one two three oh or you give them girls names whatever car names but we bore it's real easy to jump on the radio and say hey
fire it position bravo now and the you know whatever fire sport can start hipata as great if you were used post to be and that thing is you i sometimes start doing his best and
saying hey fire round at this predestinated spot did they fire out of that predicament bodisco united so let sarreo north to the peyton there was shooting smoke in the air and
then the the fire fight in throost the almost three hours actually cars and fifty five minutes and we had eliminated all water these guys and they started falling back and so five
and you that are making like thirty forty fifty guys fall back well just for a skull god at the other guy never shutterfield that's just your takin good fire disappointit ah one
two rounded makin good hit make insure what i do i shoot the sand about an inch the nonsuited come up then i'd shot er i about it and in below the sand and i get a head shot every
time saniel that an then you roll over you know then with the grenado that we're gettin as you mention what i denayed course we have a force second delay in hours and and there
there grenestede poltices before they got wet going ewhere from fourteen second studenty eight sense they have good quality controlling their great factories like we do uh let's
see ye you you you're talking about that you're sending guys off now you're you continued to shoot your continuing to hold your position your serbia way through your hamel at this
point and then speaking of these grenades you're in one of these positions and boom in comes one of those grenades to your tea or spot what you do about that well i yelled gene
and i grabbed it and through it back as going one thousand two thousand three thousand buck tom i had eight thousand a temperate back over and i ontwel thousand thirteen thousand
castors we you thousands and i guess you good second not do it back and and the the grenade went back and forth five times and i was at twenty one thousand twenty two thousand i
said to sankoo off and it went off and i was hit six times on my back was ripped off and i just yelled out in it say nothing else and when i yelled out i just stayed there and i
looked up and there was four guys coming across in ireland and all for those guys and that's when we found out they started falling back and tommy said there followed bag and i
said this ship he started you okasi you know i'm i'm wounded but i'm otawinki still very very mobile in tom of course he had dreaning like god knows litenin and you don't worry
about yourself he stripped just beyound to get out of there i saw we knew now ah at this point it seems like the fallen back a little bit and it looks like from from the way it
described there is basically another down at a little further back from where you are proxy five hundred yards and that's to the north to the north is dolright itself i mean there
they else is slated for the wonder and so what you what you guys as the planal quick ere it left to get to that thing it's farther away at the traits and distance and in from
there we can eventually get in to water and get out at her and you i talk about coverall the time and and that's like the fundamental potrero how we fight and in in a normal
situation you would just get a little tranfers and you move back a little piece at a time because ah because that's how you support each other in this one there was no werdenen
those two though so you've guys made the call of tommy and who who's going to stay up there totominai elissa there and tom he said you fall back called that that berdenstein it
had any had been wounded but what we did i looked a craater benares i looked across i i could understand why would call i counted almost otter guyandotte lot more in that and it
was a indebted they were trying to trying to extend circle and by the time i got back ah as the book says a danton's back by himself called tom and been shot in the head of the
proof time to the hell so you guys a put down convenience fire for toreante you fall back you're doing what you're supposed to do and you've got the vietnamese lieutenant and you
got can with you on with the you get back to that position and that means lieutenant norris is still up in the big bunker get ready he waitin for your fire sport and and will that
happening i'm going to go to the book a right here i was asking for naval gun fire right on to our position ran the says those rounds could have hit dan and me just as well as the
bad guys but i had no choice the guy on the radio came back and said understand fire for a fact that i said absolutely put it on us and he said are you sure and i said just get it
in here and so he then actually as they were called in this naval gun fire were tommy was like seeing guy's comment and like through the grace of god a one big round hit there
they hit them and and and got a lot of bad guys and then again going back to the book i went back to getting the law ready to fire the law rock it i could hear the ship shooting
but that's the last thing i remember and then the narrator comes in and says at that point in the fight tom nor took an a c forty seven round to the left side of his forehead the
bullet entered a skull at the ordeal socket of his left eye tore a section of his skull exposing his brain and conachar furrow along in the brain itself dang saw his officer go
down in the extent of his head wound his tenant had been shot dead knowing there was nothing he could do he made for the others who had just taken a position on the next one to
the north as he ran he took a round through the radio he still carried on his back knocking him down the round destroyed the radio and saved his life but fragments carried through
into his back dan picked himself up and kept running it took him close to ten minutes to reach mike where is tommy my gas dang what he reached him where is dieaway di waas dead
dan replied and this is it so you know you are trusted vietnamese fellow see says hey look foitenant that i waywise tell he's dead and this is what you do on going to the book
here i told quantin the others to wait here that i was going back for tommy they tried to stop me saying it was no use he was dead i believe them i too thought he was dead but i
wasn't going to leave them behind we never leave anybody behind so no way was i going to be the first to do that and i've been wounded or dead he'd have come back for me that's
who we are dan said he was dead and i had no reason not to believe him it didn't matter and what if by chance he was still alive i could not have lived with myself if i have left
him behind not knowing on what the envy might do to him if he were still alive that whole area south of the bunker was littered with bodies and they would be looking for revenge i
had close to a quarter of a mile to cover and the last part of it was up hill but i ran all the way then titia salvo from the martin that was the ship out at sea although i didn't
know it at the time that it was the morning shooting had made the bad guys think twice about advancing on the don with the bunker when i got close i saw that moving carefully
toward the bunker from where i could see they were flanking the bunker in moving the infamies or the beach side as well as from the south i saw tommy lying on the west side of the
bunker two guys were climbing over the top as they moved in from the east they moved cautiously and got within a few feet of him i shot them both and be moved to where tommy was
the add an unbelievable head wound the whole side of his forehead was gone his brain was visible you could actually see it the front low will his brain was kind of pushing out
through his skull i could see why dan said he was dead i sure thought he was i picked him up put him over my shoulder and started running i also grabbed at a kafoonistan as i knew
i was getting low on am i hadn't taken more than ten steps from the bunker when there was this explosion behind me for naval gun fire round the concussion picked us both up in the
air lifting come off my shoulder and tossed us forward ten or fifteen feet i literaly saw him move my shoulder leave my shoulder and flank through the air when i landed i sat
there for a moment stunned trying to orient myself and catch my breath once i started myself out i crawled over to work tommy was lying in the sand once i got to tom gain and
started to pick him up he spoke to me for the first time he said my body and that was when i knew he was alive i said can you run and he says i can run but i can't see but he
really couldn't run then he blinked out again i put him in a fireman's carry and took off for the dome to the north where had left the others i heard him talking now and then and
i guessed he was fading in and out but i knew he was alive and i put all my energy and focused to covering the ground between where we were and the other done where luciad on one
o talk about the camaraderie that i respect we have reach other and even though tom's much smaller than i am a he would have done the sin thing for me i know it so so it's like
you say you a innouie which were all under sheounders and what our job more tis as had been maysotta i could never live with myself now that he was dead i thought he was dead but
a with the grace of god he still with us so as we all running back with him i got shot to my left calf and through my own o my life calf and i fell to the ground and then we got
back in her quantitative as cover for were you a like when i've done stuff that way maybe not be safe his things in the world i i never was really thinking like old missus
dangerous we were you thinking oh oh this is really dangerous all you just oh he's over there and i got to go get him cause that's what we do as halted so that's what it is you
don't you know fears are good thing but you got a focus sonmeani you know i could have sat down ettarre die and just a lie here and and do it i but i said i takes me to esben his
eye can and ah you know and then the thing is is that m ah it is like these go back to what we are and in the camaraderie going through train and while we do things and if things
like that and i think of the broader was my father as i go back to i look about it cost my dad and never would let me behander anybody else behind it on that's what's on still did
us as we go through training and that's what's in still does you know ah no a tomboy hand was in the last night he set you know i'll take care on you what fear was well i need
what it was but i mean being afraid you know if you worry about being afraid of everything you should never be in the files you're not focus on what what you're tryin to do so let
the whole thing is you know so we're outer to do a job solicit the dam job done yet it's interesting to me i would i think guys would feel more afraid when we were getting ready
to go in the field when even me you know you when you have time to think like ower going down the street which is had you know dress even tenison it the last four days and there's
guaranteed to be another one on their tonight with the question is it a goin to hit you s a goin to git some one else and that i would see the look on giesbach while we were
getting ready to go out and it you could see a little bit of that montsorin field everyone's doing what they do they're just doing her job on his liftin the wit on a line would
should get you good your mind and no water supposed to be done so for guy does have his mind in the game he stay at home he in going out in the field it might tornadoes now this
is one of my one of my favorite parts of the pockat is well i'll i'll read it when i got this is you talking when i got back to the doon danging can or waiting for me providing
cover fire lieutenant an was nowhere in sight he had already made it for the water to escape but god blessed dingan they waited for me and were still in the fight even though dan
was wounded they said mike what we do now and i said we swim with is the classic see scenario in that the water is our salvation the adventite have that special experience in the
water and and people dare comfortable to water and it's our home and that that was just the classic age his guys are said roderigo remember were combats or reiterates over run
into shells now now talk about when you get now your moving to the water for carrying tom what will goes on then well uh i i didn't employ tom's life jacket as some of the stories
said i it i'll use in tommelise a surfboard and have come away with breakish imaginer and bring him up the other side because the worst thing you could do have a wave and we had
six cents away commitin and that's how can antedate in injured tegeatan ah i have i got tommy out that's what i put and i could never find tom's light jacket and he had it in a
pocket tatonka and i said why all wonder if i get a bullet hole in it i said she has stood because we put a piece of tape in it you know if you have you know sucking chastillon
take so i took my lihachof me put it on his head then i took the you know the outitska harness but i just put a little bit air and i started a brushing out to sea and that's what
i saw an was in no not going anywhere and i could see dangon front of me and saw i swim over and grab quin and i i put contingent of a quantico too had been shorty that in a
yattenden femur and also as bud was completely cotogne couldn't so i am said you're wounded you you got trapping your back and a shot in the leg or you got the tenant nor the
basically on conscious dinewandoo got can who he can't move himself he is a mobile as well corrigan dang his leading point as you guys paddle out in of your carrying both these
other guys he the water so what i did i took can and put his arm up with my arms or net cans arms and heelpeiced this hand i started preston and two got out past the ranger their
weapons and at that period of time i inflated constricted than i actually tied his life jacket to my way and i told forninst am i hear you again a typical i think the example fies
that see a latitude right here this is a thakane time tommy woke up it was mike you got every one i could only count for a swears the other guy i say i got them i got every one
and then he drifted off again then when he woke up it again it was mike you got every one do you have all of them and i say the mettoit em all okay there are counted for but i i
just love the fact that you know you got a guy that clearly close to death and when he does become conscious as numbering one concern is desyatiins was greatly yoshishige a people
surpass it because you know but he goes back to the thing that you and our talk about early you take care your people your people will take your youth now am you get out you pass
like you said past a small arms fire and and again daggone asking mike what are we do what we do and each time you said we swim we just keep swimming well swim south all the way
to coenties to escort an that's what you did do you the start you kept swimming and kept swimming and kept swimming and you're out there for three hours swimming and and dissipate
into some perspective for people that have never swim in the open open ocean before the longest swim that you do in seal training is five point five now nauticals which is the six
point two statute regular land miles and that takes depending on the current depending on how good of you some you are that's the longest swim that they actually made you do and
that takes like three four sometimes five hours that's the longest one that they make you do and by the way to give you a water break in between so here is you are swimming this
and you you're wounded jolak i said your dragon these other guys now luckily bell wardrope talked about this earlier you have arbolado life i mean billy would give up one he would
not give up he kept looking for and they and actually the morgan thought they had killed us on leave that in the ever knew until several years ago that we were still for i know
that if that actually a great and an guidantonio sly i can't cover the whole book on the alaculof on this show but get the book because ah ah there's dick cousinage job of
actually going out and talking to the people that bore with that were firing taking people on the more and you're right they they fired round and all suddenly her anything and the
fire danger close rounds meaning like rounds that we know or gonter close to our friendly forces and then they never heard another word so there fought was you know horrible we we
must have hit her own guys and ah but luckily and any other thing that's interesting about bill waldorf is the other lieutenant crinis with an had actually got now to them and
told them he misshappen the lieutenant got killed might win to go get him and never came back that would he got told so the word back to wood and he called the new port use when i
with the navy blue the tommy was dead and i was missing in action and they were still looking for quantities a okay so here's actually her eye her in the book and again dick
coussirat job getting back with all the all the guys that had would there fore estalagem and he he talking to to woodier bill woodriff he says it was about eleven thirty and i saw
the newport news begin to move off to the south then my junk skipper got a call from the other junk that was off to the north and slightly in sore from us we are about a half mile
apart so as to better search the area they said they had swimmers in the water and were going to get them you can't know what that man so burtis ah because bill stuck around
foonote greatest admiration and respect for bill i i'm glad of bill found us till bills would do a counter of taginae the we had rid my come down into it on getting a bunch of guy
everybody else is left to come and find a seat goes back to the the things about taking carrier team mate genoan and thank god they did find his book calls to no those guys were
have made her cause i'm in aid over six hundred bad guys hotherstone you know sometimes you on leave nobody be hansome times you got to take your losses too you know it was thee
ah to things and i i i heard the rim of other seals and fetnah to missions there's no question where launching on as down pilot and seals and trouble were going jeptha's what
those guys that were still into non were doing they were getting ready to go out to their governor there coming after a should know and the oiseaurie delated trying to get in on
the getulicus i said had the gun in place on sadatane and there we we aren't the h have duty gotthicis back to even what we have to day with you know white harcraft to go in and a
losing the guise at boyoee anna go in and get our boys back out and i ah you know and and and you know we passed the atonemaker where ram and he's a eyung men who service nigh of
the grasemann there what more than i am foliation through training owerlooked education but there wisigothis and the training the oitalian than ten i had it when i went through
there there and there the fairy high standards great guys come in through umboo guys now get back on board but obviously this in mover yet because you got severely wounded the i
specially tommy mores and you you actually told him bring the newport news back as is a grocer's the doctor i knew there's a dogrobbers a navy cruiser and they had a lieutenant
commander on board and i called woodie and i said we have four we and one critical and ah and the newport news stood turnaround and we started steaming in and arjuna on the other
junk arangodde first and now we passed down a yahoo some chair that we passed out rigger they put to mean side that i got him up there and ah i actually picked on me about of it
and carried him down boasting was too white to get through the hatiti tom meack up carried it down the lead him on the garnein the doctor's office and of deniged to the bruce to
deep reef the admiral the war with it on this is a again a great fine fit getoch another another seal that that wrote the book another vietnam seal and i found a kind name dod
shock zinder and chucks ender was a carmenon the uses newport news and i'm not sure why why dick couch found him or how that worked but did eseguito he found and he's talking
about when you guys came on board and what was interesting was that ah a few months before actually a month earlier they had had a turret explosion on the us as newport news and
it killed lovin killed a love the eleven and wounded sixty two and sidetes de metical staff all that was they were kind of primed luckily they were used to they just been through
basically a horrible mask caseldy and they were somewhat ready for it which you know again by the grassante were they had some recent experience with dealing with wounded and and
so that's why they were ready for this one that's according to a chucker this this cormantee here's chucks enter talkin when they came aboard they were pretty scruffed my job and
handlines was tree ash i saw them first to valuate them and sent them on to a senior medical person cormandola for treatment i remember seeing this one american i couldn't believe
his head wound this for had we simply blown away i had to fox and it was a good thing he was in salt water or heatable to death my second fall was this man will not be alive in
the morning he went straight to doctor further fecero who was waiting for him in surgery there was this big guy who was with him and he carried him from the fantail to the sick
bay we had to force him to let go so we could treat him he wanted to go into surgery with him so that as you nosmuhl and ah he also said that when when they came out and said he
we need to check you out and you looked and said no the tommy comes first the rest of us can wait hum this is chuckanut talking again while we were treating the vetoists i kept my
eye on the big american i finally got in to sit down so we could look em over i saw blood on his pant leg and a cut into his trouser i saw a boat on a leg my eyes got big and i
called another comino the look at it i said we'd better treat that and the seal said something like ye at ever he just didn't seem to care but he did care about the others and
kept asking about them especially his lieutenant we knew he was a lieutenant because the other big american seal said he was he had no rank in signior him so again you are number
one priority is your team mates for um another person so to so you guys make it back o the ship get you back to land tommy eventually gifts casualty of actuation to the
philippines you i ah got on the radio and rincon oh we met a ottomanful by helicopter to the nannine down on a helicopter and his whitening and rented with tommy the new senate
forty one a call we uarapo is atostor de by day people like that out and ah ah so all the top doctors you know your sergeants all those guys rot there because they had already
pulled everybody out of vietnam with the exception just general practitioners and ah by the time we got tommy through the whole operation got into the philippines or clerks it was
almost nineteen hours long the mate act than his operations lasted a nineteen a half hours a first operation and they stayed in touch with us but i stayed on board the new parties
to the following day to take care the vietnamese elibet i spoken of a pretty i mean it i i was flung in vietnamese and so i stayed on there and till we were got them all pastor
this is the doctor talking major walter grand he's the narrow surgeon that they had to get this guy get get on me or too in the philippines trust that he says when he arrived we
took him directly into the oar at the time general military battle field protocol held that the patient needed to be needed to be or should be conscious going into surgery and i
was surprised that some one with this series of a head wound would be conscious and conversin fertuna ly he was he was still dressed in his operational gear which were blue jeans
and a black teaser some kind as i was conducting my initial examination i remember that he was conscious but but just barely i could towhee through a lot then he seemed to come
moraller and ask sir did you tell me about my men i know we got them all off the beach but can you tell me if they're okay still then otaheiteans now they get done with the
surgery that you're talking about little incredibly long surgery and here's the doctor talking again on removing the bandage and inspecting the wound we talked and i sensed that
he didn't know that he no longer had a left eye i was reluctant to tell him as he had endured a great deal but he was a pre tough fellow so told him that we were unable to save
his left eye he thought about it for a second and then said do you think they'll kick me out of the navy because of that i said that i couldn't really answer that but i took it as
a good sign that he still wanted to be a seal then the funny part was of the eyes much as he was the lassooer his brain that was a actually don't think that's funny sir other
limit is either so we say that what he what do you mean that what was the ahahui hey they're not going to get you even though you last party your brain you well i i think that was
a one of the tweaked about it cause he wont to stay in he he was already a chosen billetita her aperative and a course she all medical hold that does adsueto and ah but tom would
have been a great head been a great admiral mineral wirebinder as proud as of ridicule too and other few early aiding up to the rank of a to the top what we've had some great
leadership up there in renumerative craven of nod jomater unanalysable amanate way you look at a watch the tango from her oh awful was his i he could go and still be in the
taninaka though i fifteenth guerites amaze me every time i look and read something or something how much on him so proud of each one his young men and who servicestation or yea a
etamin again that the the attitudes is constant and you know i had this with my guytoun the one to go home they won't distatant care if they just had to sit in stayaway want to
stay with us in iraq uh oh you know i mean how proud all you guys were when we were there that malooney guys were seven your words in the pentagon you know to make month sir and
and you know you look at the geyser and jove and those guys that you know course o ye lasses life another the very basic operation and ah but you know that even though when they
they had the diverse against on they continued to derive to make their life better will ride jumped the class example who oline in both eyes on even alone you want to he was
already back into america and he's all the phone tell me cannot please come back to iraq i want to be with the tone it then and i goes in just as colligation and has a beautiful
family and is a memento winnows table to put the purple hard on him of them and tomewhere with the adminicula that apathetic where was that was that in the hospital no no no he
was at the pentagon how generally hewahewa arnwood for you guys to anne's in the memento a hegave other from the lotembwa gave a calling grain was there yeobright as it haunted
one be osmose the cask into trust a ward ceremony at the pentagon yewe were all not freris to be there doing that but yet rinova you guys put the purple heart on him that i got so
sad he had had the same attitude that year from tominie can i stay in and i love there be with the guys ah how much longer were you in vietnam after that operation that was
october thirty first and i came home ah on a break in november and i came home for good and the january sun in then everybody left in march of seventy three and a woody and unrest
a guise say there they came back as a pontellier and wood he unchampioned and all those guys bradbury stuff so on and that was the last sales of course in reanimated with a
doubted batono know with the camboose and all that kind of stuff and piloting and stuff like that you are he talk about coming home here i'm going to the book coming back to the
keen this time is different from my first vietnam toward when you were label to one tour wonder which is by the way still what you get called nobilitate you come home from your
first to plot or even for my tallantire at fulton you are not a made man until after your second combatting it was not so much respect from the team veterans as many of them had
been on four or five comparationis it had more to do with acceptance i was now one of them when guyele garigave and walled gustava and dorsal came up june said nice job over there
or good work getting you ieutenant back off that beach it really meant something there was also getting to know my kid who thought i was some stranger which i was and getting
reacquainted with my wife i've been gone more than i was at home since we were married and there was the absence of combat both the warring of having to go in the field and in
some ways missing the anticipation of getting ready to go on an operation and the rush that comes from combat i looked at all this is normal for any seal coming home but it was
still an adjustment so you guys same stuff to guys go through now jancofiore stuff guy's gominier spouse is dongeon credit for what they do i mean they raise our kids the families
they take on you know stuff that we should be there to rintheroot but you know we have amazing spouses ah you know in the teams tone have a lot better you know the first thing i
mentioned mind wife is so were she would do the aviate or so they had now we have a whole different outlook thank god and you know they here are part of our lives and the yet make
it better for all nosegate military wi all the military wife staation of what they do gather raising the kids but there also fixing water heaters and you know repair in plumbing
in their tidoeng and the house byead stuff that that we are supposed to be doing geronomo ted put over to the beast was the man ietan a car in their trunnell or not a change
odynesi know that to try to pull that one of her eyes now going back to the book this is you talking i was notified in september that i we received a tettawonga a lock goes
through your mind when something like that is going to happen to you you try and play it down in your mind like it's no big deal but it really is a big deal every one in uniform
goiti deal i felt humbled and undeserving and i swore that i was not going to change me for you know roydon's always been a renegade and from it always will be a renegade and then
i wonder let it change me and ah shoonoon back to get the medal they would let tomeavesian said now catamites recovering from the head he was his still and this is this is what a
year later a year later and thomasine's just a going through all nosologies and everything else i mean tommy went through servers for six men fears and tease thou so ah you know
it unbelievable of men the soisette wouldn't let him out of the hospital cutaceous so i said hathi is not i said i'll bring him back you know they said no i said i will get in
trouble not take him out i kept him for four days for then my hotel nerve he estaminy no world's looking for it and surgeon general of the navy which is a three story put me all
report athought goaders masseurs onen i tony fradys the chalepon we used to least talk about my fortin and and we take you know just on random days we take a you know what make
for insunder my fortian's you just smuggled a otaheita against orders went to winter admiral's mast ah talk a little bit about the ceremony here goin back to the book we showed up
at the white house for the ceremony then we were all taken to the overlords presented with the metal i'll never forget president nixon saying mike what can i do for you and i said
well mister president you could break this medon half and give the other half to this young man which was tom nor the reporting to you standing behind me because he saved my life
though so again even even in the end here you are a dear look it out for tea made for all the way through umlilo out for each other even to day after forty six years sooner in
diseased job that you never give up well the book like i said i mean we've covered a fraction of the book and it gives so much more detail it goes on to talk about the rest of
your navy career it goes on a talk about and an obviously if acabo tommy no horses career as if he as he at bein by the way went into the asbein was an under cover operative i
mean just unbuyable unbelievable do you got to get this book so that you can beget the full uh details of one in talking about and you know the last thing i wanted to read from
the book is um the citation from your medal of honor as on they go one or read but the bug scaled by outer hamlets and jomini never felt i deserved them bottle never fill i would
deserve the medal but you know that i wore that with the honor of the men and women as cerbere me served with me and sir rafaelito of people don't know we've lost to me and eight
hundred fifty three thousand people the great nation does enjoy a freedom to day and that's who we can never forget and freemason free and ah we must honor each and every one of
them and they all deserve the medal given her life for ratatoo michelon soriki said before what a great young man i need my etana feel for all adulterantly and colonnaded i've
never lost a child probationare close great friends and ah i know what what part of their going through but you know to you lose too of a child with your own that the gods best
you to give a is hard to people understand the free is not free this written in blood as you know thackwell yet and you know and i can't even fathom for watsie to lose a child i
know oh you know it's some i can't can't even fathom and you know when i hear people of throwing the word year old round you know i i always i was say what are you a lot of
veterans and that is the real heroes didn't come home well i agree with you but loose we did get em on and we still continued the trout to get on the remains of the antoniello you
know the a but i said if you go and get this book you can think it retoucher a lot about it these operations you can learn a lot about people and what people are capable of and
what real sacrifice looks like and you know my again em wi every one's going to want to tell you intelletti thank you for the service that you made for a country but as a seal i
want to say thank you for setting the example that we followed and as a person and as a human being thank you for showing us that were all capable of more than we thought and no
matter how dire the circumstances the matter how many enemy forces are advancing no matter how many rounds their firing at you know how many grenades they throw at you no matter
how big the problems that you face in life never quite under self and never quit on each other very well put her druce sir i think we've kept you your long enough well achonry get
a whole lot of speaking time there bodying the little heathen accountacy job that you imaginations stories wombat um bankim it on as my honor thank ye for what you're doing and ah
get the word out to the public and a because a is like i say free of his not freely as in john frees written in blood and please to take advantage of this you know give back to
the ones are given so much and i i goes back to what you and our talking about too i mean the the wives or children to saxicava for their fur their spouses to go overseas and keep
this nation free and what they were ganization that you have now is called the micheltoreno foundations semitone we give out money ah intuitive out you know fifty thousand or a
hundred thousand i gave out a ten thousand here five thousand there and in our or met foundation basically or i'll give out twenty thousand you know and i just to a couple of
examples one was a young marine came back us a corral a retired in a a course it now it takes a bit more from nineteen months to two years a get into the via he had these bad
headaches but he'd have enough money to pay for her his cold payment saw right a check to the morea to the hospital a rod dritto check to do in a more ifafan out he had a brain in
ism and was able say the young man's life no one on we had a guy in special ops so he was an air force major into all sir jason he was over seas his wife got dog no with a state
were cancer we put her into duties ty a try to save her life a a friend of mine goes back to the day we started silting six and along which started jason nineteen eighty he was
our chaplain he was a catholic chaplain and he calls menominee great foundation i have a problem mastodontine problem i do i do diligence were ever get their kids into the back in
his atchison school which all the kids there raconteuse en two or ten or levarme member and other three of them with the spent their whole school time and their abbot the father
could causes a cold payments we saved already built up to like a hundred some thousand dolorosae i paid for the kids to wish in rodichev with ollie it over eighteen thousand
dollars in now for all on back in there but i say had a stable platform in everybody knew what was wrong with the mother if the all the teachers knew the kids and stuff like that
and then at that pretty time i go back and i make some fun calls to him some good friends of mine in new york city and they took care the over the hundred some thousand dollar
copies i put a bandage on the problem and then i try to go other but i mean i offaire somewhere parslet i mean i work with the ah the navy self foundation a sell family foundation
the ah we work with the butt keep in our history of the museum ah ah was john lead as a great job that we do up at double beach and drink or lawn forcement foundation which is the
number one foundation amain the nation give or not nine cents on every dollar raised and i give ninety seven cents of every dollar race i do have one administrator i i pay for
some my wife and i can travel around and and and take care of that but a but there's some great foundation out there i just told me she do you do diligence on their foundations
you just go in line and check them out in it for four storied star and find out but all foundations are worked with his cottage went efore very della race out to it for the call
warkentin her foundation just pull up at that the man find okayannie and an who he ye fond o the made man find or the michellthorne to put my name on it the buck starstone ody's
point fingers they only get one finger to point all take for responsibility what i do so as i always have you know don't do hand i have people like bob carry congress from the
yesterday that not mellors i bored i have an admiral my board i have had two really great business men on my board and ah i have support of a people alerting on states we hope to
port the cause said they used to give me to other foundations but they didn't like to it the money was being supported so they give me the and i and oh i say we make sure we take
care i mean if flighty blows up the engine elefen having a bad month to get laid off a renewed pay for the rambat we write to check to the we don't give it to the person we give
it to the complex or we give him to the hospital and we give it to the doctor so i way i know the money is going were supposed to be going so they can get the take care of their
promenades your service isn't quite over yet you're still serving in still helping veterans and seals across the board and once again sir bankerian has been not a knowing you
spending on our talking to you and i look forward to talking to you against some o you will jognis go on chordonia go keep him out of trouble yes taratan you very much for having
me on thank you all right we just took a technical break and my fortin has left the building and went to go do it my lord and does whatever you want were pretty much whatever we
want and a bas awsome obviously has them on agree and when my tarantellas you don't read my citation the alway to sitations i that was all no factor is no factor all india foliott
automaton obviously and now we want to keep having people like mike or on the poncas the somebody wanted to help us have people on this pocasse do you have any suggestions on how
they could maybe lend to that effort and relate support sure oh yeah like specially that's what i'm saying away to support you ah of course he is away and support yourself what
kind of thing you know with a good for the goose is good youore organ were leeuwarden as you put it as i do put it out lester yes so origin man so origin may mantispe just so i
clear yes organ e mai and oh ye on me to like to vomit be like ma a a a n o cannon like to set a man on kind of clement to which makes sense by the way her crouton told land so in
all a lot of times like okay we'll take the geese that i first heard of origin by the way agitates keys are don't check it in now and of course you know but that technically is
kind of a matter of opinion as far as i cocainophagia and gaysome one in my life for more than shavaleer for ever there were the look in sicily with ages like you know the the
subtle differences kinda you know it's to each their own kind of thing here i guess you're going to like full on fashion realm here ten ishi don't go into it gentilium looking for
functionality you probably could a guessed that yes so ye and you look into it so the functuary part yes all that of course but when you see me in america this is like the appear
to me this is a that basically the defining situations so you don't you orabele a made in america about the need's closer or whatever and escape closed but then you say okay dan
osego sure you know where do you get your blanks from or whatever to all we get them from you know somewhere out of than america kind of thing no the cotton get the cotton from
america that's what origin did the actual coin he welleducated about fontinalis just kinda affie when you have a guy that's making the geese and therefore is going to weave the
material to make the geese with he's going to make material that is specifically the best to have for age recta's a situation with organ at that type of comment meant if that's
why we're in league with erigations i work out of we have that mind set over on this side makes sense will fill so yet origin that that's the on um i'm looking forward to my gee
and i'm down forged by the way hum but um yes almost for to own origin man old r i g i n m a i n e r e to be clear to ekaterenburg there you can get the hash guards ash glad yes
and we're going to be making everything were ye remedian everything i really that i utilized in my life i am going to make a clickety going to end a come out with almost like a
life kit is really what it is it's a call don't use the resorter analogy brow a that's reduction is because the revocans it like the usitata okay but i did know the annonaceae
word kit is universitarian ersa workers right but what did you call it the kid that's what i called it i guess so so you have got it the bretholl it can't they called her oper
like it or web geer ither call it hit ye which means that we also cause we have interoperability with the briton with the ouysse also tend to call our gear kit trio yes in fact
you are correct if you were to say i'm going to make all my kit there rinsers yes but there is a fine line where people might think of the u s c fight kit which didn't go over me
awell it for is gave a huge hay and you know well at that be there thing for sure oh he far as it's going well or not going well this one what would it be leanlie the distantial
discipline equal freedom kit how but were just call it dear yes we could just call it garrety vote i i don't i don't rule the world will so if you want to call it tioners an i'll
call a year over here yeasto know that way your comfortable i'm amabomvane being comfortable it what they're saying technically it'll be a kid with yer in it and okayannie this
select that is traditional you said the word kit right right that's what i can oh okay you got like a life it can ye i got a survival kit you i was in lethe's got a comforting the
whistle and a pair matches in it where happened to use both lashes for in drabbling rawhide a whistle you just said with the etonian your little kid to get lost in the way would
you suppose to blow on the west for a while and to whoffin you i pritanniere now then coal not that i know or to do in ciety got lost he just keep a heating and wonder action and
he had released her or or up in the mountain there it's kind o the collet maka and maka malca is monimia so that's kind of the direction erstein you just keep alkina's good lesson
for life to protyle month in intime long story maybe some other time that the organ presenter give so boomarangam all made in the america rash guards geese all that nesties and by
the way a supplement sarto ye supplement sergeant lads ye es ye in it it all there yet still and and we're going to make basically what we're talking about her jackass opponents
because again and what do i specifically want i'm pretty particular let it make that thing yea and in legal forward the good part about that is to your kind of one of these days
you can rest assured do not connate like this these weird extatic like ottomar die or something like nooreen are done ye ye are something like this so ye not of me could the good
stuff is organnnum yes also support yourself so on it i am not going to go into my canalboating again in time italiener day worked at i didn't do kettlewell i did iholomoni you
that was it was like an article that said that those little goyescas oleron to these and indeed all your funny article i i i he laughed now at the title is called some along the
lines of i'm trying to make i remember it exactly it's it was called fourteen ways to avoid being big nosrat remain a puny little weakling bouligny i think not to weep dwiver got
a loose in their podophlin in number or whatever number that was a merriman a puny little deep apparently is a thing but are those red goblets quaestiones clan know what you do do
the you basically front ross yes i bore actor to a goblet is like casiste for to shape a god in the air that's likelier it is repentant a few used like a huge as kennel belt of an
manamet cotton i secured work in fact i mean respect to the author the forget who rode whatever but it was a real subjective really year on all i totantora shock article kind of
yeah you know is like feelable if you take penalty with you a serious director out their turn help people that have skinny knees proud that beyroot to look at you any way i didn't
really like the article on that level but for a laugh it was good and and actually here's the del re candles are legit tea and they are a goblet gluttonous leads a thing there is
a good point they hey yeh i'll tell you what you know her talking bout what you what you ah you mis do you're going away you see i for some reason i heard like my wrist or
something i or i hear something and i couldn't do backwater front cots all yet i was the has made as a maybe was my shoulder anyways i was doing goblets class with the ah with my
big cattle bell which is forty kilograms and i i i had put on the schedule of what i was going to do went twenty five was a bunch of rosamond arose but the verse of were twenty
five there twenty five twenty fifteen all the rest yet he howstraten ty five hurt yeah yeah i will be as it's only it's only eighty eight pounds right that's yantas be pretty
insignificant ah but you really do when you do those goblets squats yeah you using your whole body to keep that thing than of her men is feminine eating out to it nothing that he
and i got used to interpreter to time yes that's what was cool if so on it dahome you can get back kutasoff there if you want the cool on and i think i am i don't know because
then you know i'd haven't ventured out and i i don't think i ever will venture out to go see where i can't get other cattle bells from need really is you can buy the regular ones
or the the dull ones and let's face it man you take enough pictures of the dot one for your instigat where vedic pitches for and he kinana he can't so deep that at one yourself
into a cattle bell horner exactly right and are on your social media ye have painted yourself into the next corner which is not a bad thing necessarily on a duck on last jocko
that's where you get these not many myself in a corner with my social media i'm on a wake up every day at four thirty he you got a post i guess what the other day i got home at
three o'clock in the larigo i didn't get to sleep until i won thirty now what i well up in the morning i was really tired yes and ah i was you know one of my going to do i'm i'm
painting a corner had to say a gustato it i i'm i'm going back to sleep i actual were back to sleep i shall lerne to a fee that's good that you took a count ability though yell i
that's just lying which i don't sport oh if you did it you if i could if i woke up took a picture of my watch with a i've had people in but she just well had you for some time
just wake up in the morning to enter you watch me go back to sleep and no actually i don't see that ye it it doesn't seem like you could ever bring yourself to do now that why
would even want it you know i don't want to do that it's a horrible snarking defeats the purpose rea the whole purpose so the other day woke up to her picter my watch and i was
like i got a call out at the bed and de freaking tired you one factor bed but you didn't post it no i don't not you say that esistito going back to bed go all i'm a boor following
for me yet i diaconorum me actually no one time with that whole conference news dialogues cover it out at a are over her sooseeta the freedom part though well well to day on your
silent you have the freedom tinman you've got us sometimes he you can't like come but especially if you're working out and you don't you straight up don't get enough sleep i'm not
saying you don't you entitate i'm saying but if you you the proverbs on we don't get enough recovering huh which sleep his recovery breathes not a good thing man so every one in
while you got to exercise that restraint in the form of the freedom to sleep in there while i did in an this part life anyway and areas also the whole painting is of in the corner
case so i got this jump rope and it's like ginetai don't know how up to date you are in the new dumprender getting better they're yet they're done and here's the thing if you just
buy a gragler jump rope but you'll see the difference and i mention that because i got on it jump row i told you about the time of my neighbor taught me or the cross over on over
and that's what it really hit me like this the dope come on so if you want up creator jumper won't want it that's the one in fact just goin there see what fools what a free what
they have there all out to get the allied stuff also good way to support when we get the book by honour bound north mike thorton and did couch when he gets his book gone our
website jack about gastonian taught many boom click on their books from pages by episode by the way is upside eating quick through their ticket at is on you get your book stare or
you in the indo some other shopping you know by a law more to take whatever quite through there good waiter you know small little action on a little plank through agree action by
way of support also subscribed to the pockets of given already i do in stitchery all these pocussing providing platforms and you too for the video virgins possana or an some other
various little video things at a good way to support also joculators called jackals jackassdom are far hats there good hat crackers flectit three colors watelet fit and there
flexerit didn't have the little like thing in the back were you not a havistock oh i think they're flexit they don't make tucker out at her foot with i don't think they do now oh
okay red sure i'm fairly palliate hats made and there they do yes i unto bring me none of them ye tidied that those boma john l has a store pusiano had his there is a aunette is
this other kind of hat i think it's called like like an operator hat it's like rules anyway but you know doing that one too nesting in event of yount being the s into the trucker
hat as may be something else we'll see flexes well that's my bang and aisles a good year flexed has purpose i just have never seen her truckers at flaxie and i doubt i'm on to see
one now no man the new stuff verily but ye some other self on that still shirts on there cool stuff jackybines a shirt that he designed which is cool layers if you will umjoli her
where you promote the shirt or has your picture on it it you proud of that aren't you now not actually be on niyamat one and i didn't want idea what my picture on the air actually
that's true i got to give that echoed not want to have an echo shirt cause it doesn't it itimate he told it she did not call him jock store i got some pull ye etolmesa and i'm not
saying it by this shirt i'm not saying no i hat thing go in the store doctored a come again if you like something yet something good support also psychological fare if edna that
is said album with tracks jackechan and these tracks help you get through moments of weakness in your campaign against weakness every once in a while when you wager these hard
campaigns against weakness against your inwaying up early sticking to the diet worked out all this stuff it out sometimes you get moments of fatigue sometimes even the strongest
have their moments of fatigue that's formative so this i called a quarter these tracks they're like little spots for those moments of fatigue ditchou it no problems i cadgily then
you act boom for ye that's a good so if you are you know waking up heartlike i say you waken braile feel like heading the snows listen to psychological warfare one of those tracks
on there i gets called gito an get after it you will not his sinews ferdousi sit yclothed jule willing to anywhere i tonewerot amazon music all the place where you where they sell
him three good get him there the oheteroa that that we covered to day by my fortin by tommy nora's and my dick couch you can get you got to take um is a great book is a great reed
and that's a good place to start so much more detail and i went over to day i we just as i was walking out by an and his wife and i was telling her that i was explaining to him
that it's like the deep reef i wanted since i was a e for the navy that wanted to know what happened wanted to details now we got off and those some crazy details seaway there ye
betray he ses dick he's talking about how yes you know my friend gets his like for head blown off whatever you can see his brain all this stuff even in a movie that that be pretty
graphic seem even to move that be unbelievable yet like you be all that mood wasn't really realistic because the guy out of a head blown off in any live but that was a crazy part
though or i hate on that movie you know roger i really happen also as you know he has him his other gun he shot by the way it is like an he's going you know through those canalis
stuff and traps back from a that he threw back five times the obosky you dan we're sitting here any spicy sitting right there down as a day who really did that you know is not i
mean resourse acting is cold and in doleful but that's not an actor cotterell did it heavy for that tiny yeah it's true as i am to get the book read about it read the rest of the
details that we barely bescratched the surface on a also so the book she get in a book alacranes p about beatership it teaches you how to lead sir it's a book that i wish i had
when i was a young leader but i didn't have it i wasn't old enough to have written it and given it back to myself yet yet doesn't orlick that he also was being to be in young
yonter but call away the warrior kid which is awe some peas kids all over the place like parents now when i'm speaking somewhere they bring their kids ye sautee these kids kid
said her duty grand drift which is pretty awesome so wait to warrior kid as so many kids are like doing poop now yet the ill disconto say my fan my daughter would be like she
bothering me dead that i want to do pull up seethe one that gold you don't get that from reading send around a cinderella did not make her want more i that right or i ride i did
tell him the stir in the room last night incidentally she really no antony poor about it to no i didn't cabellero go do any notice eloretat better no did i compel her to study
hard now she just said is beautiful gook so compelled some fat of beauty to a yelegant compel any change of direction that i snuff no action taken i'm going with way the warrior
kiametia ah also dispungere freedom the old man you will m is coming now that could compel you i get after it it it it could i check out there no books like it now and it's like
it's a manual stephanas amavaroo you know how i won you listen you i okay i cut you know you can get a field bed i let nothing any art of it does nothing iyanough manual it tells
you what do i and i also talk about some for better in my head so is interesting you can get it appreciate it also origin men you already covered that which is good that is now as
by the way were partner so when you start your tegitur journey or if your own your jugeny jackal coming get it if you're on the path of getting after it do with us at origin and
also if you want a partner with as from a leadership respect of in your business our business ashalorn leadership consulting that's what we do me lay fading to nelder in full at
ashlan front dot com don't go go and look for jocko speaking as that's going to give you a speaker's agent that's goin to charge you more money is there something on like a
likable insurers agent that all the okay and and they're trying provides service the trying to get they're trying to connect speakers with people that needs speakers but we don't
need any one to connect us with people that need to be cercensian from dot com e so that's that also the master said ember fourteenth and fifteen in san diego just a clarify the
first three masters were based on the same material because we did it on the west on the east and then in the centre of the country just a gratify now that now this master must
reform this new material so it's different new approaches new stories is not sold out yet but it will be so you want to come register now extreme lorship dot com and while you
waiting the for the master if you have a quest for us you could ask that quest on the interweb where there on the twitter the insterment face he boeois at each arles and i m at
jaca willing also snapped chap are you on the e m n there and i posted a snap so far on one snap and it disappears after twenty four hours yes you can't go out get huaheine to
figure out like how i'm supposed to utilize this thing you so we'll continue working on that one i am an that's it that's a you can get in touch with us and a family tetby out
said out there who he thinks may be our being overwhelmed or you think the deck is stacked against you or you think you can't go on any more think about my grordon and remember
that you are capable of so much more as long as you never give up and keep getting after it so until next time this is echo and jocko out
