this is jacopo asked number ninety with a go charles and me jackwell good evening a good evening as my wife tory mentioned this past week has been in one of the most challenging
of my life i want to say thanks to my friends and family for your support you really have no idea how of much a few words of encouragement can mean when you are a time and place
like this thanks again my paton is in a very active are of operations in southern afghanistan omission is to close with and destroy the enemy there is no outside the wider here
because there is no wire my boy is or simply always on a lark we haven't had a shower since we been enough ganistan we've run non stop missions and have been very successful at
accomplishing these without experiencing any injuries to our own i'm just trying to paint a picture of life here and not trineke you feel sorry for us trust me i belong here with
these guise and we are a family rather i want to paint a picture because i'd like to tell you about travisville i know you don't know him but it would mean a lot to me to be able
to spread his story my platoon string of missions without injury came to an abrupt and violent end last week when we had a dismounted id during combat operations i three parture
presented from the blast one was miner one was severe in one was simply beyond words the most severe injury was sustained by my weapon squad leader travis big mills i'd like to
take the opportunity to tell you about him even under the conditions that i've described he is the best of us he was the biggest guy in the platoon and has the biggest heart to go
with it he was eager to please and always cheered us up he led from the front and was injured because of it he preferred that he take the injury over any man in his squad he was
the most fearless person i've ever seen in combat when we weren't combat he was great to have around he woke up every morning and saying a bunch of different songs to us usually
cassia or brittany spears were the songs or some other durban we had this ritual any time we finished a petrol where we had a fire fight once we returned to the strong point he
runs to the front of the formation and sing songs about the eighty second air born he would do dance gestures in all he even did it for the brigade command drew when he came to
visit it was able hit i laughed at how or he laughed at how serious i am and how i don't like to be touched so he made it his personal mission to make me laugh usually this
involved an overly aggressive and a little too intimate man hug followed by a middle school style dance where he could grind on me you kept me saying i laughed at his antecocen
and combat there is no one we would rather have been with he rested his life to save others costly and i can recall two times specifically where he literally saved him me needless
to say i took his injury horror including the personal guilt that will be her feels when he is responsible for his men so i wanted to tell you these things every one is asking how
on doing yes i am hearing but you know i'm going to be okay more importantly travers going to be okay the truth is olsen things here so terrible that i'll never be able to put
them into words traverses injury being at the top of the list but of all so seeing things here so wonderful that will never be able to put them into words either i know that
sounds crazy but it's true how do you put into words the spirit like the one of just described in big mills the reality of it is that i have the honour of leading people like
travis there are many more in my pecenje like him so well i've seen some things i'd like to never talk about again i see just as many that i'll spend the rest of my life than to
explain to any one who will listen at seeing a tremendous love and care between brothers that have only each other to rely on and have only one care to bring each other home is a
selfless deep everlasting bond that i consider myself lucky and absolutely privileged to be a part of thank you so much again for your support but now that i am fine i am exactly
where i need to be right now my family here is taking care of each other and we will persevere as one now that is a letter that was written to friends and family at home from
lieutenant zac lee commander of first platoon bravo true for seventy third cavalry squadron fourth pro gave combat team of the eighty second airborne division the americans and i
think that letter describes sacaran travis mills as only a fellow patomime could explaining is unbelievably positive attitude courage under fire and his unwavering leadership and
denight i am honoured beyond words to have the man that lieutenant lisp oke of travis mills here with us to talk through his experiences on the battle field and of travis welcome
to the show good evening think you per having me yet now i'm goin to say to a front i was a low nervous about having you on because this show has a reputation of being very
serious and very solemn at another you have an issue with both of those terms in a broad perspective so forehead heard anything from travers before there's not a lot of serious
stuff that travesties um serious comedian and hilarious guy with an gradated am welcome her she men backanford off not they use so much i'll do my best to be serious i think my
alte described it very well now a letter he wrote to his family i i made sure that i kept this fire up and i would help him in every one at that but under fire was hold different
persons were dear no i thought you get a great job of capturing we you know whatever you one's feeling over there and i didn't i didn't go of to ask them but what the senior to
what we sow in iraq um and you don't i talk about this a lot about the fact that i visit why guy's miss combat do you know you miss combat even though it went your over there and
yet your in the trappist uation and you like i can wait to get home but when we get home you have that little thing in the back your mind that says that misses that comradery
which only comes from that place so he did a good job of describing that so i think the hand a tender stand where a man and up we kinda got a hunder stand where a man comes from
so going back to the beginning the the young tradesmen the young travers mills and you know how you grew up in all that um calkalate bit about that yeah ma i'm from michigan when
i go on a peak rottenton i always say they might from ohio before i tell for mission in a yell away and then the yell i own to get real passionate in than i else socks secrecy
know and i get i get some food but i'm from a small town in michigan a right round the fumaria i grew up playing football basketball baseball i have all her sister younger brother
ah my parents are for nominal people and you know just tirolese values than i went to college i play football after high school is over and decided that piwarri time for me to go
to college and take a serious so i went to the sir allan so you were playing three sports in in high school and i i i got a cold from your book and here by the way m humered it i
was the focalised at the end of your block i was big for my age and for a lot of boy who years i had a big gap between my two front teeth yet now that a negative thing am i no not
as a he is not at all a of us at the table you still have a gap between our i'm just said oh i undesignated i ah i like to wear my hat my hair shave their boss cup particularly in
the summers when i got hot with that obtaind a look i fit into small town america and you did curatey the way you look at it the ninety nine three cree a cries state champion and
assagies i was sir but that's a is not a competitive age bracket at warner ahead spin of that kit centered over rest on at rectoris ah actually to hate that a contest here i'm
going to open read about it it wasn't all easy it when my first cried matches i got kicked hard in a stir him and couldn't breathe i gasped panic and tried to suck air when my
normal breathing didn't return immediately i raised my hand and forfeited the match a kind of disappointed my dad rushed over travesty doing you for for the match you you never
forfeit the match to out o how hard you hurting you never quit ever yamada was as a pointed them i too sieve did again and then i just i don't know i just went hard to rest of
that after that i just at nyalong good values my mom took roddy with me am so don't messiou mom either no no well yes tamasese's five foot two and a untenty five pounds how did
how did she produce in year beg ask ye i don't know i don't know is it at a five eleven no kid yeh yeh but i was six foot three when i that my walk round wait and at the first
match ever had i had a girl and she beat me for i want hit her yer and it was clear to like he girls i thought that okaya next wife i went what the town if you know a botany know
you don't have girls either way i learned you know that's a loss situation eating your mom your mom told you no go hit her yes at legiboli she was a halesidota go peter up well
okay so is competition and then she was in my you know they did have his separate gender brackets so everybody was the same and the first gray faced i wanted it and i rose bout
and then the next girl had to that my mom was like you can you can hear and like hollow okay sagelike you're going down to minotauric so i mean i hadn't the iyeyasu and everything
didn't hit yet i was seven for me the the ah football team vincel does it at right i'll levy okay well you know i know about you much of a fret speaker over amy and i won't ever
that language and if i had knows name i would say the same thing here is how he described you the first time i met roasting middle school attract me i'd heard about it some one
over watch him he won the shop to which meant he was strong then he ran over then he ran over to one hundred yard hers and one though with intewest you don't see that combination
a lot i knew that this kid's going to be a special athlete in high school he became a super star three sport after eatable basket ball and football he was the leader on each team
and made him first team all conference in all three sports with football used definitely a big cardanets wheel we are smallest corn or conference and would got beat up a for a lot
o years but his junior year had as his friends got into weight lifting and power lifting and went to all the football camps that year we want to confinements and made the play off
sorter time ever traverses work ethic moted every but motivated everybody everybody got stronger because travis was their leader jack in steel what's what's caminetti ever made a
lay of how how did you how did you what like got you what made you start letting a coach lavender i was in seventy six a seventh grade he said he after school if i wasn't playing
a sport i had to go to late and he was a vice principle to high school so having friends in high places is nice age in trouble you don't really get in trouble you know am the
thogether on there by me in an tralalas freshman year for to do at don't go in i broke a childish nor mine but this elswitha did it's in the book you know i amandy body farinas i
icehouse the morehead did so i wanted to go out there so i final at one rising out in hallway and he took us in at office but he just said guys nockin off you can't do this any
more he much proaching powder oh that's all yes o my buddy eric he got a whisperen i very competitive like mine were rantwee were both to the king captains in stars the show if he
will so i went home and said he i guesses taking i dote and i as before like to head the iragola ions on it or my part like nose can't do that to wearers let him get it maybe
wasn't true re carey home attaining to his parent so we both got to get on those in them you know proaching pot ye get off he has gone to disrupt science class the teredo we hewed
shell alamanni was fun you know everybody i worked at a grocery store a after the ball games i old man we come in drink coffee and hang out with me you and my boss just like on
the sword succeed it like the wife would shop and only let you get away with ye i that is at the water cooler was a coffee pot and we you hang her hollywood wrong why did right
very marcapata party blew to read right bigtime yeh yeh i saw some tidy footage of you at this game it was a madness at those games well though the one the one run had was looked
pretty good un film and her look pretty good emersonitis but friso you get on with your senior year up football and did you maintain the high level of discipline in your grades
after that point at a meal so ill a book put the girl friend as a four point oh oh so i grades went right down here in a more study partner no no more like you help you home work
yet being he same class and right left handed for the scratch where handsome sheriton like that and so that that man did you get looked at you looked out for college all i did i
had a couple of offers for baseball and football m de to couple the one smaller do you on a and for some reason my a guingon er he just a eneas knew mister simpson great guy he
kind of figured it wasn't on like college be displayed up so he's like what about this community college he rarely good and you can go there and play football and i and i decided
to go there and ah i just i mean i was cut off for football was a cut off for this study on that that that time my life right and so you went there for what i one year a semester
at one man edema girlfriend was like you should move on so i hit there on that matter boyfriend calineries tathen i joined the army he looks like my life at dis happen there
corollary i am one to collate iveagh i haven't you hollooing up mimente worked at a and i put up golf courts i found everything out in grand my body after went on there and the
man drew the place i eventide wide she got to come home in the goat be by i guess in now like hint was this about one you find i broke down to a meilke always did no army was
taking people and give him one is but i see you as you are dead you will you ran him alone don't as untenanted recalled but that was for the whole year so as baseball coasting to
play there to day am yeh but then you ah you're in debt here am colin was on a mission that anna threw open the end of june the army and join the amatoor careers and army had the
best thing going which was cash twenty four thousand dollars at a heat mines at today the no idea to have a tea here this did bullier get in it that money you know now i i don't i
actually am not a bear anatobus not allemanno no has not gone that far i onaisy fan o karam but ah no i mean i just i saw away to pay my bills back for a waterall and do one more
fun stuff i want ter be electrician and they show me airborne vidyas want that oh yer de old the old dog with that called fate where he heighte we wanted to as i want a cook in a
good one thing you know where i can carry on in this silly life and have a good trade that you have at olive back to a willing world here like watch this video isoudes that's me
that's obsession ah is it like air borne recruiting video um well meanest vidyasager regiment recreating video and i signed up for all that but then all the roomers were like
vimieiro crea and on my home go a cretan then twenty two of my friends went to fort bragg at yegor to pick a donations there filling up the new brigades the like oh you guys we
weeeeell in here and you can pick her ogalallas fastening went as what years is a two thousand and six oh yes so that's so it's took to totally different for me cause i joined the
navy at night ten ninety oh yes that's before i was on a cristemio yeah yeah with talking or to so there's no work going on and even though in my mind i always thought like the
seals were just like fighting wars a world wide at all times and which was not true but i thought that but ye wasn't like everyone i was doing the military is not like when you
guys joined the one your generation people joined you knew your own warabouts hundred per cent you know i ah the the biggest are got actually do have and i not to get up to
plato's done but it's not try to go to the rangers or goes pectore or to the sea the gamin idea try i wish i would have where you would have would did you start thinking bout that
further in your career absolutely to was going to come back ah and abstergere and get my last year and half a college that would mint the college when i could i took college out
of unrelated asino try to go recruiter to um go ahead and get my degree and then go to the special operation room because if you don't do it that way if you could be coming off to
lady yang back through the cue and okay but it is easy going to be go right to pelotons and try that out or go becoming officer and i go but in yeah just ah you know i know i have
no excuse seffurieh it's a weird thing and i hadn't really like to anybody like i wish if you compare you is now free in high school and me in his asnath school it's not even
comparable you you are like ten times the afrite was for some reason i was stupid enough to think like i can make to that training and you weren't smart enough to go like i can
make that feeder gives you would on this cessation is that the whole o the ranger contract i had all these guys were going and i got talked to my buddies to going to for brag i
ran to a bunch of em they're like i i we made it as i call my guns i could have i was in oleanist ing is an interesting ah esactly humility it's you being like a man you don't
handle i played you know a football and baseball and ran track or in aright love best for all football baseball and basketball i'm a great athlete but i might not make of you out
that's actually a form of humility you know i think it is how is it there or had was that i just you know looking back now bare spot little bit and i wish i wish i were to win try
it out i mean a little really good life have a wonderful life everything i do jump ahead o two beautiful children so my slight good there is bad as the situation i'm you know i
found myself in the april of a tall atentive but footback i wish i would a tried something here here i mean but the eighty second or born is whither you ended up its fenale oh i
yes i mean i mohekinder body like all not standard how'd you like an this is something i cause a lot of people i listen parast um they join the military lever not and like we just
met a guy bother day whose going sideration and rancor but i always want to tell them like when you show up with bo camp it's going to be a jocular system right in it is going to
be aeneas is not gone to stuff that you used to it it sounds like you got a little you know shock hoyster you showed up there of just normal military stuff and i guess my point
say that is when you showed to be can't be capitis is not going to be fun for you is going to be transition i mean you could mentally prepare all day you alienage yelled an you're
like wise a guy alesani didn't it doing it wrong to me alone am i may be hulsail like collie first thing like i come out in a legal gets collaborated on my cushion a catacolae
after i eat the cold so outfit in like one must meet this greathearted then the next time at dinner in like okay finding no cold as i misused bath or do they hurt i remember how
you get to coeratadas son only now sir you they are that's a that i care right yes that's me i was so that i you are going like just play the game the understands going to end and
make army what you can make it like make it work for you you understand the job of getting yourself into and things like that because people ask what you still join if you know
happen i said yea absolutely i would or i enjoyed every second i i was going to be a twenty year guy i figured there i realised it in and ah just you know dear it's it's cool as a
cool a thing that you wrote kind of veteran a boot camp am you're thinking about september eleventh you know like i said that for you is one of the clearly knew that going in and
two thousand six and he said i remember feeling a ragged mix emotions anger confusion dismay and wondering why anybody would want to do this to as i was american i understood we'd
been attacked and that our country was now at war and that when there is a war somebody needs to have the courage and intestinal where wild fall to do the actual defending
fighting and unavoidable killing that accompany military actions that would turn out to be me and that's another thing that people need to think about if you're going in the
military and going through this or the bunch o people that you know i i the apron i'm in the parent you know said kilcontack to my son and he will want to be seal and i was like
yoshino problem and so i met this kid strapping young kid look super happy in positive and he does water polo and he's a great athlete and he cared wanton the sea teams in what
what advice to have from me like or are you ready to kill people and are you ready to die and it was like dull room got water them too but they're lookin at me like a crazy but my
point was like that's what the military is you kill people and you riseived that's that's what the military is i mean yes absolutely they have the combat not come a combeness tom
just in every arises with the seal teams with the turesh's what your job is and you're willing to risk your life am for others i mean it's just when i signed up is a yet unready
do this but you never really understand everything and then when you go to base train they show you all these videos and louoit they show a lot of and brother stuff which is what
got me interested in going into the military and am i took it as like this as well as well mornington this is awesome but by geary's that people ask me kotal my son not to do in
this an i'm like a goat i know you can't you can't talk to you for a young man on the doing this to find people that want to tell you like while you enjoy but then i i did this
and i'm like i don't i don't care like don't you know and everybody talked to night her by black i talk to the god to give me their worst story possible if like all i got a
brother's friend it lost two legs you know him bare trap and harrogate on i know you're going through a notion kayuta word from me i guess do you not watch out for the bear trap
in a ya neko all year how a real friend grazed him on time get where you're a nosegay doing to look do you asistock me up your at airborne school most are you you do your first
chance you five jumps in air bunce go most back to the book most without incident except my third jump which was supposed to be a day time combat jump with full gear on the way
down i drop my rucksack to slowly you're supposed to release it when you come to the tree line but when i released the packet stayed just ahead of me and i landed on top of the
metal frane frame olalia the jump master was already on the ground and yelled back immediate private mills i said no he glared at me and added that shot up i show up arbores cools
really funny and to his wit happened to me in arbors i was over for ever i'm not like am i i am a person that falls fast through the air when parish woting i don't know why it is
not those people you don't float no i don't foind and the other thing was i didn't like doing a peal of which is the proper way to land which is you keep your feet i met together
and then you like act like you have one big leg enough the way your supposed to prevent getting injured breaking inland whenever it so when i was pursooing at airborne school i
wasn't really doing appeal it is just kind of athletically landing on my feet right seats they got these loud speakers down on the all near field and as all these new guys all us
are just new and the guys on the megaphone heels and he talking to me cause my feet are part and i'm going to do now that i can go to see me together a born sheep eat together
upon feather of one street another abode are right or more tatso ah yet i county sackracer no i i didn't get her that's a pretty to get her as gatton i was as actually jump master
bertrand i you know military year time that was in and you know got the ball feat calf timonian an all me you die all all i owe instructors how long is it the on't master school
will be in instructor at for bending well at ben is so completely different so it was i must not that much dirges but for me it was like a three week horse i was able to like
checkers equipment but they didn't make him memorize the termine of they did did not did day ah you got to amrie the pre jump brevier thing and stuff it debonairetee niline stitch
with five thousand tranest feel at the strangler played a way strong in the america he lay it but now they don't they don't do that to you you have that i that scottie um you're
getting ready for your first appointment seybert second or borne here you're there you get ready for your first appoint you know you're going afghanistan and you're leaving just
after christmas and here or going to the book my dad didn't talk to me about leaving i was the next few days we hung out and did whatever we normally did but most he said during
that time was be sure to keep your head down then the day before i left dad told me a story about when he went into the army he taken washball paint and written a note to his
parents in their shower stall where they were sure to be able to see it it said one short sentence of reassurance all will be fine early the morning that i left i took a wash
woolmarket when into my parents bathroom ride above the foss it where they were sure to see it i wrote the same short message all will be fine i was miles away from the house when
my dad called he told me he saw the note i didn't say much and he didn't say much he told me love me then his voice became hoarse and his words are support for me came out broken
and choked first time going on the point and it was it was a little rough to because tom i got my home town a marine a is bad my is database ball coach as bowes in my grade on the
dafter christmas on the twenty sixth he got shot by a sniper in iraq and ended up right to his heart and he didn't make it home so his odd my brother's actually his girlfriend was
his the that this christ is a little sister and she was at my house and i found out from from friends that what had happened before the family found out ah from people that
repoined with the unit so i mean i was a rough my parents you know to have me you know a couple weeks go over seas and then i'm at home in the aversas call gigotot that i know he
iterating that's when the hardest things for aught win win military families he is some one wounded her killed van now that that could be there mum their loved one and anisya
that's a methody before your leaving man that that's harsh and in the were good were close friends with the family like in a sad as the his dead coach me from adding god ten years
old up to haiti and a ya fourteen or fifteen but then you know near the family or the well so so as over often things like that for a bit to my parents but you know people now
when they see me that they say he do you go beatonville arising on like you know i don't really do that that much they want me coming at will but i'm not sure of it gussoree once
you me an stay an he guys here you be able gay you know if he trautenau i would i i talk a lot of companies but it comes out that i like her you guys you'll be good over there
it's like some movie that not six thou don't know it that is but they're like that metraheni embsay are shipyards i've never seen it i geol that lies a like to pick legs he scared
reserate cots spressly badone how so good i'd forgot your here he no like every now and then shiminya so your first appointment what are you are you neath three erny for ah when i
went over there i think i was a neat three that i been eat to actually my pain heehaw's only i get milt arlie six months right a boy that's that's crazy as good time i worked for
a colonel he was a whedon basically past for the colonel right yeah yes i like try me in like a young private you go to a unit not ever try you don't get treated like crap you
work for a a lieutenant colonel rows a direct descendant of colonel custer is a it with his great uncle in the gasjets lil scottie and he was walrond sing with her parabases guys
to par and he show like the double as on his own he ahoma guy really and just go round them so that we ever got yelled that ar might my team leer was was a cook and a target rush
like if we if we ever get all out he just go to the colonel like hay sitter bother and us in the crimson you doctor my grasslike is so nice being protected in nearly a colonel
shells are relatively crushed and you were living on of if we you're commonsense you living i like pretty good poplarly and they have like hard billings on the head tents we were
in the very first hardbiting all we all went in and bought a allaient i had a shower every day or hot meals made under how offered you roll in outtaken every day okay but we go
out to governatore back or geryon know and now sin the gym i'd go eclecticon like being a dim with people i goslin's an i superseded a lot an so i go from eileen at night just
crush it in a midnight choices like the greatest thing ever there no crowd ah you just you like outsailing the athout to convoke breakfast and dinner said narero i know you're
much coagulated but it when you got the midnight chalfonts went to a hot wings i'll take pancakes in a way doesn't take macassari down that he and ah you guys sound like i'll that
first will you didn't unishe even sheogue for impotentes on patrols every day i have a suicide bomber run on as i like detonation of our track the sagatio you have not melanie's
not taxing of the light and as you know but he the trucks not heard him it's like genius grilgames job well done an a for effort yet i got after judgment yea yea but still that i
mean that debt havesham er hit your truck that's the wire that's at least a reality check out of minimum right in a sais it was it was our or one of our front crops and then also
we had a guy run up on the colonel opening a hospital and dennetier am i was in the trucking but we just found out if we got there we just make sure they went nowsaree aware every
time we take a turn you know our guns are rotating were not sleeping were up and out m we don't rely get mastless and am in that that help i mean i was you know i was in a place
for there was bombs and things like that but rotated you know where you d would roll out before the funnier oh that's right ye how many gone how any contractor you see on a convoy
just a jisous would him and the three crocker two tracts casinet iwasa the first like six months nice and then i was a amove to like bats but it it it the threat level was like
medium i mean iatakya utica bigger comfort with more aggressive sowles if i was in the the hum it was all humberreller and i had a two for nine like as my hat my main weapon had a
saw her alligator the front o ye fifty tall a back track wearing give you a mark and is going to get sawlike i also think you saw i had i had a saw that's why i put up there like
as a big old guns that's awesome a good times ye why don't think if you are real gun up there a hell that my savorgnanovich that taxation and i get that in point east the time i
guess itself miss entreaties wife me get some of their self in onderful ah doubt do you want to for is it is it for me you went for home for our noon it is and you had your um
first meeting first meeting with one hour peculates sisters you know i left it i love antagonized people and i got a midspace friquet and ah i not a amanthis it must be a dating
pages it you know cal girl hat round lousiana skirt is like but the dating sight you know is the ad weighted foot that last name sans my medic testiness eation e was on one
arenaria looking through as i gateways she's eighteen so its legal otilie set you know it was very shietan majesties make him mad you know but we had it up an jointly for some
ever met as like i just reputation i've been here eleven half money you know i can come on home for the fur a eighteen age you wanted when going vacation she's like as sure so
beside go cosmo mexico how do you how do you talk to a her dad into at she was eighteen sitooated i get that now he didn't kill me sir and every right answer you on to mexies days
i came contaletto mexico yeh yeh you guys i say it or it wenty four thousand dollars when i know that a erwin to mexico then back to michigan for a week i had a great time but she
would make a texas had to go back over seas i got held up in atlanta so i called her up to him in a land for the night one command she said yet the same up next morning said orbis
cracked out to your streaming from her face a man she's like i love you i like in knowed i love you too and be a vassiliev you lad pause one as like aayteen herself i want marry
you am like yeah i get that but you know i might had i said that as oliveira two interesting over here jump on that airplane get back over seas give her fall right twyford hours
later afghanistan and like a going on be she's like guess what i'm not in now what weddings plan bagatelles doom lowering and he called her dad and what do you realistical i'd
like okay thinks coregos married how did her brother her about cerevisiis her brother in your potential is a medication the same track as me oh my colonel would pick on him on the
radio and say but we didn't those do with your sister have a sageman break or breaking let that go focussing nut in the truck you know a jocose hand me on the back seat and i'm
like no no no don't do this do this year but now he hesitates like he told mamma days like look at i know how looks he is actually a good kid really nice yet work out an i let
mariner that are so no i shall sorata's that's a great story you could tell it me in here that's pretty ah it's pretty unbelievable you know that you pulled all that off what in
the colonel is actually set me up i'm to go to the frescoing for west point on that ye be playing football in my my eh lieutenant at the time a witenagemot but he may be a colonel
now but am he was trainest coaching he holds of record and chicago yeah most consecutive losses at the school here he was corsini high sale it had erhabener guides at he was like
help me coach and train up and lift way from de whatever but then it calesino do this you know so we got married or got back how long how long after he went home for christmas and
you come back ah i came back in april in the thirteenth night fourteenth morning and then you will find it in my book but we got married courthouse on the seventeenth wooed we got
married again in the alited in je like girdlergate money well i needed to i do hatamoto we got a house you imaginitive in that the attachement you so that wangewaha jack's in
mckinney hundred and twelve that day and then at the sestette down and now you now you know you're staining or me be pretty pretty much sand in saying the army of the pontiere
enjoyed it i got moved round another unit and we got back cause had got to like a line you nicolete i mean i was up for a lithesome but uh yeah we got a holt ornatest north
carolina a rapid for brighter bought a dog um life was good and in a figure military doing well and then just konfituere fifteen months or eighteen months before i point vessels
masaloth eighteen months for between deponents re ah it was that's ously a year and three months so like i went for fifteen months so they gave me eighteen months off i went for a
year and then i gave me a fifteen months off then i had cogan for a third by from jumping ahead her so you you get back over on deployment um and this is a visisitudes and you the
old tight neppon that but wanter one o your friends caloused that rightest on a mount of patrol iditer to acol then they get a start small arms and bush and i'm going to the book
here are guides needed to get to disabled vehicle out of the way and while they worked toward dis objective tylerton up to a high sight on the near by hill and fired through some
five deeven magazines to amopocan a soldiers below when the sable trap was finally cleared tilouat to the truck but the enemy it specifically charged at him and our peg flew in
and he was hit they rushed him back to the hospital at the fog but it was too late pieded on the operating table fury rose up and side of me i wonder find whatever caliban savages
did this to tillers them in the face tiwes always cautious he took his job extremely seriously and never made mistakes there was no reason for him to die he described at me once
how he believed his jobs a sniper ultimately saved innocent lives he's putting into practice what he knew to be true he was helping the world not hindering it and he'd been
trading to be one of the rough men who stands ready in the night prepared to do his duty prepared to visit violence on those who do us harm taters death far hid far too close to
home and we only just arrived so as not of fun way to kick off the point then all it and i am eserance near you but it seems like the guy that got her or the ones that you don't
expect to ever you hit lottie was a year older than me ah i respect him i mean it was it was crazy cause you know a guy's year older siloane he had such a professionalism about
him and i looked up dominie carter watoon him and he only had likeuren extra year and a half an hour mantineia but ye the way and highly ranks nipper and ah he went up and just
enota bad chat so he was just puffing everybody nighted tierney and pressure was a camp chapin that he that diemeringen i haven't been saumaise you induna making his alto weeks
into the point men and am you know when when that god like that gets hit one yoursefs an angry ontina but two is like what seishin get you know he taken out you know kind of take
you down a conference of egretted two as well because he was a guy you wouldn't expect not that you've fecteau you know like a super soldier were thou gather at amsure like
everybody if you hold him that regard everybody else manara and so everybody's feeling that thesame aleipata up the nervousness right there and there was houlle on our accusative
string fast doctrine in some standard stuff in my belly be hangin out he's what midn't got it and they make do push up and yellow me i wanted to punch man face but i couldn't you
know and under so wait was doing it so i is a fun story i guess like tell you because i i mean i could have decked him my pride woollen one fist fight i've a not myself out o your
aliases the one if you itemised with true in the very ovation know what that boy minesota it while always is a playing voban ever got mabortha net made alway a ah we two five four
ly cables a relatensis hasan five fifty cords or her innersent i was six foot three in the nepheliabetes like his hammer and at home i had a erica you know like a brown so he
should diculous whole belubula net and i get on over the city luminalia real fast for detonation myself right in the high socket m knocked out and you actually knocked yourself
out yet dobut but later ameni had this happen i hit knocked out her lyons he made with a fist a fury could have done a odonata chance at him and not a fontanesi that's like super
impressive a more super not impressive right you either have the attestor iron or glass jaw or not sure where i shall hit a bomb meritent so many as have been sifted iretons have
been answered i be in jeannot i was fictitious anybody so ah do you it sounds like you you guys ended up doing over watches of a road in um that up by zanzibar okay and great time
how long are you on that for i went out there in there like gaisgeach very oncome of weeks and i were out there i think fifty something fifty days or so it just live on top of the
mountain and then let smaller the road ye just cause they had to they were bringing up commissie trucks with military geronte build another fob and we had people on both sides and
i actually ah a sopradetta life i i went down when dey gets a food or something or get a resupply and ah i'm only back out they made a stop they want register mortars now was like
what he is and go back up there i got on my slammed and like the brilliant guy am i went ahead used a fissipedia a homer and i ripped the scaffold not a hand i told the white my
sword my life it was somewhat but it was gushing was ridiculous but ah as a watering forsitan up on the front of the humber and i got the medicos your dog you know well as
heredities up for me and he had but take on a got back in let my liteing ran the front of that homer and drove back up mountain silks for thirty some days every time i got a
chance to down the mountain i would had it milk medlicote piseetion please i want tell my wife and i ever heard an i i ah i was like to give people that didn't serve a little you
know impression or of of what it's like and i thought this one rapitur good going to the book here going so long without taking a shower came with a chair of complications gas got
trench for it from their feet being wet and sweaty and not taking care of them properly i got strange rashes and intimate areas and it wasn't uncommon for a guide mutteras ball
stick into his leg when he hiked every du got chafed up pretty badly in his bodily crevices and a common complaint was that a guy had swash slang for sweaty assomant hurt i
sweated so much that the salt got trapped in my skin and my back broke out in a raised bubbly rash this happened all the guys to the only solution is to get your id card out and
have another due to scrape your back hard until the salt crystals popped out it's a brutal procedure and it feels like getting cut with a razor blade but it's all part of the fun
look dat day ye banditti mean is something i can plan in in that one no it yeah watch the some one they scrape salt crystals like side of table salt come out of the pack on the
severities go but ah he asked bribed he gets so growing and in its too for real showers that ye ye the grill eneime he go get a water about poolin the top its very self down thine
dirty all over again his whole long procathedral takes like nine days or something for you get comfortable with your nasty yea a and then you don't even want to break the cycle
and get clean in an inyoni thirty an no is what the best parts like the winter cold you'll smell as bad in the winter like an inner you don't take showers like a desolately teeth
keeping fairly like the feet like literary but ah yet i was reticulated em half way in that deportatie jessant me eight barrage of anistar hope are like range pines for a month
niehoff like no not on watch the ease just don't morosest it move on twelve bucks well met so marfa where is object pass my a my pants got so torn near like chaps like buccingaham
out stuff and on stargazers came in you know they're all at aouda a word you're a olotoraca decks in her takatsuna or i think a pantaloon parlous like this like it the nonfocused
to like you you got genauni form and all that like bring me one time like ye i'll gathered that i you got it but i know you get back in that trackin roar as out here to back a
chicken wings and sank katerina the lot him arrestees good times here you know i got out of tissaret up i mean in in this heel teams we is don't rotate that many ears the half an
eye on it to fit yether you make em you can make those sins to licious yet you can't separate un get at me good miss a little them eye ah i actually my first upon a track we ate
em are for a little while and i was legitimately sick of him and in it was it was that long mum but i was already sick of them don't know fifty days i can promise you that i well
i mean ye yes you can say some bubastis won't you no not i would never in i don't have fisher the ben my sons go wifeish in stakes crablike bat i mean that lay on it when we had
like steak son like one day a week they bring out like these frozen stakes we took over like open pitfires both stick their own i do you alleviatingly like i we'd go out to some
ran my first upon we'd go out to cause we live in a war on by open bagdad who big chouhan everything goodine go out to do an opsimatheis asterope in an fiddles no where and you
see how they're living are it was always less have premonitory you know some army popular company out there in the middle of nowhere you like take me spots are roughing it nasty
and where her like the gradationally to remit amid one of my fellow takes you feel that a becalmment feelings i like to do a shame to do dilate even be the hang out with you right
now you guys on so bad on other homehearth guys go sit over there he is going to sit here mother we read you guys ever get you know what these we come three days without a shower
this scrap man yeah we did the olilie but you know with in during the i mean and during the tracait like it it's funny like my friends from high school ripe i do really good
friends i can talk with it whatever but if i run to another person from high school or whatever will catch up on everything that's like a great talking to and you know as you find
you conversation but you friend a military bodies you have seen in years and you just go right back into it you know just cause you understand where you been through i am speaking
going through stuff here we go back to the book the tall band screeched to a stop and started shooting at the a and p bullets cracked all round us we got word from higher command
to engage i yelled to my men fire we shot a rifle and she shortens with several bursts of machine gun rattatattatt rat it at that rat a tat tat iss my first large scale fire fight
of any kind it hit me with a wan that this wasn't merely a training exercise any more this was the real deal my journal and rose and with it a surge of energy but i also felt calm
as if all my trainin kicked in at once and i just did what i was trained to do i honestly wasn't afraid i took aim and fired at the bad guys they fired at me and i didn't faze me
to think that it might kill somebody when i wanted when they wanted to kill me first i saw several tow ten members get a hit and fall more fell and more the last few wore left
turned round and took off took off up the wady we out word to get not to give chase because waiter great choked points for potential enemy and bushes when the shooting died down
completely we approached close enough to see the bodies of the enemy soldiers i just helped kill it was a serial feeling but i reminded myself that this is what a soldiers are
built to do we received reports later that three of my men the three the men killed or top taliban leaders in the region so there's a first gun fight noseros the ampatheater was a
former tamenaga he switch overside and maronites at gathered big meeting i got a call to uncanonical we bucheet out and then all sudden is like just driving me on martinton and am
the fitcani and just hey gunnoogoo nuts and then ah then you know they they come back they they're really good about taking their bodies away with them you know that they're
pretty good about it but they were like eighteen or a twenty people deep in the in the widecombe an we just led into him and ah yet as my first like roasted a lake as sure my gun
to people what were you a ten readers this point ah no i was so i was actually squadrons i was i was position up so as to any five but i was in a quaternion so i was tried to his
awaterin squad not now that we were actually a we remounted ociha my own truck by a contract at rounders to to ah to truck sat were two tents growed that two telines that were
anette and then reach had a truck so i seen her like teater had one of he was otesias truck mastiate the junior team later that had the josette again i said that at despenser the
other day and i said something along those lines in like a somebody said like i think it's kind of wear that you say it's good time in fun and i'm like well the drown rushly and
ideation fond i mean they shouted me first i i me started etanoitceffa but uh yeah and then i mean yes i just i you know doesn't didn't faze me a hidinhitu heard i wasn't worry
about it am just kept moving on a marrofat that region died right down like completely after the off you go on nose bag gives a yes surasena like god as our first night out there
too and we got the million nowhere and snow storm and that was like maybe at not first i ascend it out there we just shot everybody and then for exile to onset was quiet and every
thing they back foldersome other but to the c were going to bring in this button here you got to goin to go north where there's bad lodging about a god i go as do it is that
that's the next big movement that you made pselaphus had a bad rap like as far as being a lot of fighting there ah borgonas reality rule have it was dumb the bomongo river and
when we got there on the tease for us and i guess they were just like he tell me and don't miss us here here some money and we good and were i where the second or were like no not
going to happen and the intuition that we were placed out in me for the record i am in for trosenian it but they always have a thalestris entry but soon they bring in and then we
had these companions i was like two of turin two cab squads to make atonu that we replace these ah the intrusted unfortunately found to a river there is actually ceased fire where
the tall man to find the bodies and bring them on his back on and we got up there and there was like a a line of the same on they said look across this line you're going to shot
at and we re like it go so it was we start taking ground and umeer that there's a fight sition tuoni they would be we trappin they were done so a guy when the fossato good guy he
picked up a match boxes like yep i got a match box looks like an end just the only found his torso i was yoaring else was gone just his body armour um but instead of staying in
one spot at this one we we took one more spot now that galileo ah marsais went up here soon no said nita was these astron points like corvet and impales that went along about him
a yeah yet these are in your book um you talk about those being any impales the the even worse went even further in my territory yet they were like galley had like a maragato shot
in the head when he was up there miss he like a eight man time that went in and like you guys can't really go there so we beside it one night were going to go there we try got
already for it what was it impalla physically what is it like a little a former like white house or some out as an absolute the house ah and we savernake it when night because his
last thousand editon in the north twelve hundred men between the next lake village and a tabby would go in there and shoot at us and you know be able to sneak down away far enough
and we had em a javelin team come up on one side we we went up in the mill night on this side of me a dothen this side and we just we just took it a millenia then they're said
were not there for like you know three days do we constance come back now like you know what we're going to say there so the work an stop we had fell sandbags put up barber um and
den we went up the side of a mountain and boat and dug in a a um an op but it was like ewe had twenty one guys or tubing never knew when i had twenty minutes twenty one man put on
so we had like thirteen out the coffin then he sent the rest of a atoll they we dug in so deep that was a foot deep pits new was a living room a two forty pit fifty capitum ah
like well dying kitchen area and then like three sleeping fits like three like that two consaitin like it was huge did you put overhead cover on him somehow ah no we just tugende
enough where it took me yet i mean we put out i guess we put our eye on ponchos older if you know things like by oportet on for orders no no ah and if you stood up in the digit in
the star dat when you stood up and you were digging mister shooting us and then we just rain hell and am we dug in after about a month of that we are to count some any they just
gave it up then like i were done um on that's where we we we can't they came out we were back on water and then they brasscheat they're like what do you go shovin were you here
cut my sake we have water you kidding and that it sansonetto for my pants they want to go up to seropis my stunts arms i hayseeds onygate one your teams and disculpation four men
out and a locker over what i thought the robes clearing you know but it was all illabatur on we took the place what more huge eyes they just the batters had died in him because
they wait you know the way to on but when they grow up like all there's a mortar look at that that's a hat eighteen mine a terble sack you know ah but i was semitone on top of the
open stuff like that and it was funny because as here you nestor not being shaved or cleaned up i go a corday up the seiche dred yard frilly i'm a straight up and and go up a
quarter with the way with them as a right i bring back a arundhati and i'd say hey elsie you know the sagemaus coming up in the colonel so pere et des were like tramper uniforms
on and everything and said i like to artasires and i run back down and he's barcali said sounds like i can't do a owashing tell me was alone how about that are you kiddin about
aunt heighteneth the ope i eat you made it up to the top he did eventually on like but at came back down i can't belover i said sarmentitii not despot that you want to stop right
there that town at tolomeia no town shoots at us and if they see that we're not moving quick they're goin to take popshop so you're gentinetta mostly true here he's like he was
like sitting down looking as like noonoon you need to need to move sarmatian mean and noesin the brass it wasn't my sergei don't think that was heirathet as a different even in
whatever but by amos it was a it was while bob last weed a shooting a firefight every day but we were the northerly yonder was no quite father pussons then us there i want one
part you're talking be how you you ended up shooting a leven javelining and even that's getting after it on pretty much any one standard adding shots weinhold the play all there
is is as cool them am seeking vetchnaya be fun ye june do thou the cometary with an remanier freaking getting after it everythingless they were awesome awesome umauea if i fight
every day there hung amourette we were and then it died right down they were etired to you know what they shot once we just we let loose we had not a mild the last us for years
proudly she we let him know we let him know yeh america's will cool it comes to am ye menesius and say oh you guys deenmor gamwell be right there ah all right you are the
asseemelate you like that your like la didn't you find you found chipeta ides in your position yes i i domestic having we went in and we cleared it and then we hadn't a marine
odalie maraichere stuff like there was like a unexploded arpoons one on the walls and then there was a other botas while turns out where we were rolling all bar like big barrels
for the generator and stuff like that was like it was all bothaberg we exactly we step in this gay started bartenes great guy he there is metal at the grounds at howat's that
start beatin on what a trunnion icariam arnarna taking a tilotson on the ground arestolog out an start dignitate oh that's not oh shit and then turns out when you're only as if it
adown drums taking all the supplies of right or tapering the breeze war co is where i would so it was so hot there and ah me i get a ragout to but it was so hot like me in my body
i was on my nod team a leaders i would go out there we spare selves as later bob being our pity short space other war bill lay on our cots and just see how long it to dry sabot
ten fifteen minutes keeping pletely dry and our conspiratory piano i do cause i mean he dance they did find it or was it the figure was like a come an dat that had good battledore
or something or a it was a yet will i was um ah precipates ah my selinous big drums were having a circuit but the batteries in him die we you know luckily we didn't take the
property to you know it related after the march out guy's got hit um they went there and betrapped at all knowing that we were trying to take it but some of the batter is didn't
then work which all out for us because that we jumped over a wearock wall that they had what he is like a whole no already from a probably hell fire something from time afore so
right where we you know obaseeah place rumor that's what we all jumped over and there was stuff back there too there till it's wery or talk about it and here am i and i heard this
from the vietnam seals day with set up an bushes on the c and they would you know go came warioto here and when we shoot from here there an to take cover over here behind the lock
so he put a big claymore ondertook and their near your talking about how the tall bands do the same thing over there um you know basically oh weissensee you not a berrrroum to
these compressions sir will just put boatrace or minds in any of these cover positions now we actually had to change at our ah as sophie's or setting up a mercedes in a third
oponent instead of diving for cover you had to take a netherlands reading at all so it dat's what a mind to be other reminding me that's what that's what my predecessors in the
sulpician would do to the enemy and now dianas doing it to us or to us as carry um this is this interesting spot your head in home from leave from there i left a man carnassieres
a connecting flights home to america i gave keleue kiss at the airport in dallas when i got back to the house gave her dog buddy of big hug it felt great me back but i also felt
sure and this is the strange part of this leave time i didn't quite know it to do with myself i could take a hot shower a time i wanted i could sit on the couch and played
videogame i could drink a beer and he did cheeseburger outside on the back porch nobody was shooting at me nobody stunk nobody was sleeping on triple stacked its cells was
finishing up the semester with college and work so i bought a truck and we drove up to michigan to see my parents we had a few bright and happy days with them that it was soon
time to go just like that i hugged my parents gave calsabigi kiss and flew out to detroit to head back overseas it felt only good to be back to afghanistan the feeling is
difficult to explain in america when it hung around with some friends and dallas or got reacquainted with some one my buddies from high school back in michigan i see first hand
and how most of the people my age lived if i do ostent two or twenty three like me you usually finishing a college or hanging out trying to find an internship or an entry revel
job he might be living in his parents basement trying to scrape together enough money to move out or maybe he was parting hard on weekends or may be still in a frat he who was
almost always short on money almost always wondering what to do with his future not there is anything wrong with any that a guy's got to do at a guy's got to do but by contrast at
my age in the military i led people in combat i controlled fire fights i handle hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of equipment i made decisions that affected whether people
would never die it felt real on a personal level i made decent money i was married i had a good credit score i was thinking of binos soon if they'll good to be trusted with this
much responsibility i was proud of my drive in sensible complishments i was already a man i think statements like that or like what get kids or if i said kit but like when i meet
kid like i just met it at this ah that we're just that in this you know tahaitian i just toinon territet and that statements like that is what i think makes people joined the
melange a lot of people to join a military like twenty two years old oh yes you getting paid you got a steady job your job is more meaningful than any job vicarage i mean never
mind maybe they're workin it fast food right like i did you know never mind that there working wendete have to kick as job somewhere it doesn't matter you jobs on meaning focus
you're a soldier fighting for freedom yet and they would you know you go back home and you see what they're doing you like wow that i lost changed and i like the amanita n a i got
married an apartment i you know i have two cars whatever and is it that young menage i mean in my friends back home they they were still a really nice man you nice to you on the
and everything i just felt like what i was doing was was a different purpose in an i was trust with more things i mean when you're in college and eros like all your kitten college
but when you're an army the like i'll go army in your second appointment you know him what do you do it wi im in charge of seven other a lives include it as wells my own and i
felt them were moved what to do how to shoot how to how do things in the leg i okay here i'll get some kid in the gem he might gamble be like it while you know well only twenty
three and i'll oh yeah what i was at twenty the atom for he of you a aculeata we wore were drinking beers book as it is nothing at but i know i killogonsawee like a like a beast
um so then it is you feel about that two weeks to leave during the middle of the pome well i mean as the constant worry like how am i guys do and we all had a saddle it phone
wahabit or not or things like that so i couldn't just like hit him up brook quick on a case harmy an me you do that well yeah yeah they they allow it then they they say you need
you know this stuff and but they're pretty aren't they don't they push a pretty hard no i mean to anatomise hard well let yanni don't is this don't seremonies plainly crack
there's there's the army that at bagamayo pay that were put belts that you know goedoelloe her ducking done and i can plains because not a lot as you hot and then there's people
like us where it's like there's twenty two less or twenty one of us sitting out milliner are taking no showers nosing to come to her you need to do this for we had one kid come
out no rain into him again and lancing mission actually and theventy know out of the military and i it realize it was him but he came out he chose to be a financial am guy in
lifes in the finchale fine hey you want to finance organs fortop great comes out they're goin to survey some dumb surveyed the just one ever big army wants you to god idea fairies
or whatever but he's on the roof top melicae get a gun like this you be great and look over safe if cuse me he's like woods you know exact i'm on the five all time i just i'm elle
i want you a gun you know i wegener i said what don't you get if they shoot at us my guys can get hit for what your hoping happens here i said i got idea get off my roof and he's
like a i said no serge a throw you off this roof i don't get off it and lose at a critter on me when i guys and credits on no tergeminis real hoodoo off this marae get shot at a
don't get my guy she had a tuck off the roof and get down and he's just like but i don't get it i'm like it's not a game isn't i mean well you to fire fighting are we get kep me o
people run up in their pet shorts and their foot fobs and they got the gabelroth body or abut i mean that that's real i but are fine in the way he was just so national hope at far
fight of your cool like my god can you shot the what what part of cold don't you get so i mean the the you know the army does push something to our times whereas let alone yeah i
just remember guise got from from guides that wainona all the time not for its but end they did seem like the command there commands wandered to go for the two weeks and a man you
need take his break on your own i ivies man an oriya i think meanly calling home the calomel not me and oh no i have made going home so right yeah you have to go you have to go
agayentha guy some guys don't want to but you have to you now to call him home thing i think it is i i often you called home but i try to call like one a week and once or twice a
way because if he start doing more than that i think it's worse on both of laureates to say that's boston for i mean no fence day by his love life out there but in my life i
magelone you know but what i call home hey we do in wild nor day in afghanistan i don't want to like whiles out now i got a job at the it end up telling two people and then this
guy got her but it's it's okay he's going to be fine and you ll have roadhouse can't say giselle all well you know i went up trolled to day i got to help us help a kid i sho you
know and i got gets old and then what you do well what school to day and i mean there's no real story they granite yelled a bill for a week or two you know i i definitely
recommend that why then i am in an the nicest way milantary i i think if you're if your can be home every day then you are like do you read your missing in your connecting anchoio
like you said let it build have something to talk about real and well go on get a knowing like what would you thinking about and then you get a roose it happen you know i i yeasay
i happened to mean calcimined thinking about well no eating it what you want talk about oh no oh you're nothing talked to me about it agnano i don't want and it's not a bad thing
it's not that i love you any less in that literally i can't tell you what happened here because it's not going to make you feel that about the situation and so and he owenoke
fingers you know you got all this stuff going on and then your wife like you won't believe this and you like what she's like amelot that library book that we got out and now they
called and they want us to pay for it you like to got the check came the check what are be good it was the overcharge her dorsars to find it online she not cheaper in yes one of
the big the big deer the big drama draw at home yntendencia not okay well i watched the guy blamed bad out to anatomy figure in both home i get what you're saying he sang was like
wilmore his slate you go ahead tell me by what happen with you to something about the spoil but man named you had on your sandwich am i not joe as off you get home from that de
pointing back to buck my parents rowdown from michigan joshin this is your jowis your brother in law m dinass wife were there and some the guys from a unicam over i mane the
barbecue smell of charcoal fire hamburgers drifted over the neighborhood and i felt like the luckiest man alive calcined a dog to cars and now a house we are young family living
the american dream so you had to go vinously bought right far eterni i call my wife and as i get what i distain watched to about a house and a combine knew that she's like well
you bought it so notes favor ovierna so speaking a joke a feller time i together to my now we bought a house and then my brother in law as they had a young not o child they still
do rain but on the time she was a like seventy months old i guess he had a a you drinking it dashes i responsibility you know like oh i'm i'm all holy ethan how or something i
can't drink and then but in the night he passed out to fire a year junkets to back a sick alleericmac a figure of a tryanite her up you antipyrine my bag yard like a hearse like
responsibility you know favors last ray of who ah back to the book fortunately after i got all my distrugge with any past members of combat although i do i know any number of
soldiers who do i told a few stories to kalsee about our unit time in a row batan being about going without a shawl for so long and about some fire fights he got into it in poland
corvette but she like to talk about those things watch and i understood that i found i could shut off the memories pretty easily my logic was straight forward i was a combat
soldier that's what i did i told my mind to go to certain places they refused to allow it to go to other places i found that i could connect my family best that way although i
know other guys handled things differently with equal success trescott in their siskiyou know i get a lot of guys that asked me about out a handle the the whatever memories that
bringing home not thought that was a you know pretty good methodology man like no gammocking about that right now yea i mean it was like at a buriat um you see desensitized when
you're over there like a period of about it but when i told and then when the negus there ain't he with wearing a bright green you know ah like god to struction vest and now we're
all in get right to do up the trucken but some one made the joke it think it was me or may be crater but either way with all i got on a shot to day cause he stood out he endures
only got a shot that day ended up dying you know eventually from his rooms but so all you get hit you a guy is but you just you don't say it like hoping it shop but you're just
like well at part of what happens but ah she didn't like your my stories with the combat and things like that so i just like well i guess i want not about him so like you get so
excited about telling moores and you laugh about it and it's real serious and like well i made it like you know here what you still snapping action i was driving to my house in my
body narwhales firing roaring and they opened up the two forties and like i had hit the brakes contact racontait on full over and me and him my both to reach or forriners re
uppose to be next to us will he i been midianites i mean on the ice for me was in the new alleviatives assermany vans you found out your year a debated at this point too when done
for your second opponent oh no that be awful fucking saint clement found it took us a little while oh a four months after i got back run on argonne right off a tagati you had on
you i want it wasn't her i wanting nolebat we ah yes so i didn't plan on it right away you know i haven't children but in our going to have children or have a daughter and worked
out great you know over excited did old nesting thing my wife had a sweet mass three hatchback and lo estinta you know like said the baby room of a i can tell my wife the utter a
brand new car into this and ten was brandolin misthree hatchback she loves it loved it and like that babes he's not going to get near she's like yes he'll be fine i like em not
five essaman one day like argue with her about it i went there a pop the car seat in as i go in and jump in our drive ye hanged jump in then she couldn't fit as i go just to rid
of it to he was so mad he loved every day a ekousion i won that game for you are right that feels good i am i got you a tapiser goin to have it wherever young ostrogothic away
tight on topic over her i know your kittleloof sional rain down the aheer twenty seven two thousand eleven our daughter was born will i made some weird noises in the back of my
throat there are kid was with gall over her and she was rankly in scrounged up in all i could think of that she was the most beautiful thing in the world it's o great to cry the
nurse said i did not a cry so i just capped making weird noises in my throat larthian who can you nurse i like it too katatsuki mister melanie on lorry now my waiteth was weird to
us like a scathing his kid home i mean i must thought federation and i opiate they were just a a beljambes some dancing and like i hear the two doctors talk and my kids near cry
and a nurse consopiates to look him a kid and i like a doctor this you forget baginton have one in there and she was you must forget as her host forgot how chuckles it off and i
goes to back talking at elleray get that kid back out romanshorn at guaimar up like you know eighteen twenty hours cause when we went to labor and do sort ever and as ablush shot
and i'm just like still jack from but he waits not like you you don't you're not going okim kid bump better be your treasure a gas and i had to get calcoolated she erver nice when
the ararat tower and a this guy like i will beat you if you had raking to job pro but the taylor in the car see take her home and we get home and i motherwit us and poor looking
and caliginosa as as why she not buckled as it tamanous you did us transitory did it not strike you know detonated gateward another one yet come out of a gate the crematogaster
everwhere i marie no corryarick care i'm a good driver you that's good luckily ah an me all the same you still soldier you go to you go to a jumatsu mum and you failed jobmaster
school i first trinidadian barter wasn't like the jam pie galatear as you valerien examining are that reading is mine i don't want that academic um part of joe masters school
operations but part there was running siteoni failed i failed that it was a hole you must be a dumb astral i'm a gueraut i will back nice you know the next pisoned a error you the
authors cotheal about um you don't want kid you shot out the plane yes tegether kit you kick out the plane never find ye and that's a thing they they came in thankyou later cause
it they're just like scared right on ussurie don't know that well in all belocity made up here he ayola the most abated no yes so i give my brief i there was made the youngest or
the like it least in your guide give the brief from him so like you tell him the brief if you know i agree let go you don't go give you or to more times if you don't jump out on
hookey with the tatou give ye all for it to reequipment o you say go to the real parturates that i'd no jumpers that when it's galinier ye a jump rafuse jump refusal yet and am
but then that military orberosia and then when as i say my breaks the seal the page got member is a stop my brief are there and say but i guarantee you to day have you on my door
you are going so i told the guy you kill dreamlike go and i the first guy went sacnoth went third guy when it for guy or whatever they'll go in and find get to like thirteen or
fourteen as post exit all you know thirty paratroopers are thirty two whatever ah his god like frozen in like i know you a thinker not going to go but you better jump out this
plan caseosa i told you you were going in the back was sure t back was past i just lit through all others i as i in like i get going to and then another job the same thing
happened as had i told you he will go in he's though there frozen the door let in one foot back i just grabeyard pope plain i just kicked right in the back to spare she is dory
went i was like we'd hear those rumors were never sought howat i mean if they don't jump they're going to lose money and then they're goin to waste a good past and then the plane
either can go back round the another pass and like prolong everybody's night and make it harder because i have personaliter on now i don't like to do or your ouver right erased
answer whiteknights others and it's handouts cottage type okement we ya i mean i sorryful now we're going to day and you you know i suecicarum they went but what i like about that
from like a broader perspective can just airborne school is exhorting men people dined i like gil coltlike you said once you go and you get that first thing on your belt then give
me go in they jump is no problem you know but so often people are did they just hester to scare the unknown you know and we you going do his gills jump well my fit jument school
agonothetai i jumped out and it was night time come out to scare the now to do byssin going to be the big sistently know so i do but like suit me and i got my left to let caught
up in the risers i was come down the overleaning and my shoot articulate i'm me and shaking my abipones one but had put myself a you pull your reserve at armoise no kid they were
mad about the oh yeah but i was dropped of fast and i are you ideaed which is a good thirty yeah but nihilistic led up so bad and the first job in division i'm like a ontold say
more than the guy fondly went and i was like what oere did it that's got it's not good to have a a have to pull your reserve i narbonese i mean it wasn't as a moth functions cause
my ostilities i do volley to it many leveling called up in there and i couldn't take it out and then i was hit like watching the civil like above me my boy reserves on the oakum
to pick up a sex so narrow your staff sergeant take over a weapon squad hum what is the senior spot but i was in line to work that day one i got picked fiscal also whatever um and
which is estcourt went my first art that i have offers in you know second first begad a five watuma take those i'll have a squatter spot you don't i get back from this for
avocation or for a break i came back in a game of the senior spot he goes yes ah and collision really want to go overseas in ditch i mean yes and no she understood it but i mean
obviously no wife wants the thelander sees there the husband goes rather we just bought a house the baby which is born quite frankly could use we could use the attack for money i
resamond use that the money that you get from being over there and also we have the soldiers go of my house at barbecues and she sees all look up to me and how i'm in charge of
them and it's a whole comraderie brother hot thing i had orders to forehead i had my seregranes other guy i nowise checking out cause i'm not in you i said tagati have ordered
four hood and he's like you not want to go asonante point these guys so he is i ottocar de your way put in the book is the reason i went overseas was because the soldier next to
me the guys in my squad our job was to protect american keep the tall bed at bay i drain my men i told them all i knew it was my job to take care of them i couldn't imagine them
to pulling without me and i mean i was quite frankly upset i got those orders ah but they are building they want to come bet eniote years a comeback sperience to go help you know
lead these guys i was like a noble i get it but not not for me right now you leave in em and joshaway at the same tigrero ther law your wife's brother going away same time he re
go back to books she was in tears of beautiful masses jonas leaving on that same deponent too but a day later than i was so he came to see me off and support assister i have him
and he hugged me back clooas five months old and sleeping soundly in her care she never woke up when i kissed her cheek i unstrapped my daughter picked her up and cradled her
tightly one last time and my arms she nailed deeply smiled and carried on sleeping then i waved good bye walking away from my love donsayso if this third deployment felt different
from the first too i had a child to think about now a family i knew there would be ten days and fire fights ahead but honestly i wasn't afraid of dying i wouldn't be reckless and
make myself an easy target and i didn't want to die but i knew that if i got it then i got hit eitha pened that it was meant to be as a soldier as i like a talk about my motions
every day i don't write poetry i don't watch romantic comedies as a rule i'm trained to kill people that's what i do you've got to be tough in the eighty second you've got to be
as hard as life you don't want to show weakness ever particularly retentive your guys around when you're over seas and out the middle of nowhere and he have twelve to twenty guys
with you you can't take a seat and say you're done as a leader i couldn't throw my helmet down and complained that things weren't fair you have to make the best of it you have to
keep going you've got to be as tough as they come but even so as i walked away from my wife and child and brother in law the wind struck my eye and i wiped away the witness with
the back of my sleeve harder going around estorgant no little bit ye it i feel right now actually had a conversation a brother law and in his grade with him as a yojanas got
yonsmit they gets it and a weinstein's cause we were the same brigade always just different union as it is i don't feel good about it you know i mean nothing i couldn't go where i
wasn't going to go but my is it was harder on now my wife and everything i supposed to leave the next day and went to work in licaonia this trackage over em can you leave to night
and sad of to morrow night amalie well yet i got me work right now in it what you my wife and my my kid now the yaou can go so i went no but it did does you know i want to each to
poniard her in the second one was hard for me to go i mean as they by but part my job the third one was more may i hope i get you know come back home but you got to put those
thoughts you know out of your head you can't i was still be a cant do all in and i can't think about i can't you know worry about what's going to happen you got just pushed
through and went ever happens does happen but you know is one you're not reckless and careless you know you you can't affect what real comes in to be anyway see my will just keep
pushard yedo um and now you end up on this deployment that the fall at the strong patatras small dousing the have a name jack alamode nowhere is his trumpetin you've got there and
what was the ah mozyin like there i mean it the the unit that leave always give real great advice ah in their commandadore you're not going really change a last stuff here with
how the rosamunds now am because relegates over different presidencies or different aletes changed and i said you know when we go out we take shame creamlike you know we come back
that's all you're gonadopause we get there were hard chargeling here here here at earner and i as opechan the balsas all changed we lived in em i like my first one was on big fob
second one an i was in a row of little out a little crampons and fives am and in this one we were dustlike you you go where you help of your entourage off they says you three
sixty around as all bad and ah faces how was so we'd go out the first day went out got her firefight am and that's my god what interested like i i wasn't a lot of schools i got
what to college and went to the domacica went to the advances corsairs for six so when i got back and i got to a weapons let quite theresa some of the eyes didn't know who i was
for anybody out my first ardent new man that's why i got the spot but am the other guys were like inhalations round he doesn't he's not mean he was a smoke anybody he he you know
really i was polite i guess they were ever you know normal everyday guide didn't have this trip my shoulder after i first fire fight like two guys i came from a different intruder
like look i didn't get while you were the the squatter i didn't get how you got you six am and why you were charged but now i do because you know when she has a fan that was i was
guided to be there i guess you are in this fire fire going to go into the book here ah sarraut let all behind her and hit one of his team leaders charging martinville ran over to
him and swept his hands long but there's body till look for blood millamant our lieutenant to a poor weenen find any and you you just um you spread it out into this river bed
during this fire fight going on and here you are i'm still one of my body on the betises all weaponless if i kept my rifle would only slow me down i ran over to work sergeant
pumpel house probably fifty meters told away it's my leg shouted i can't put any weight on it shot up i yelled get on my back now let's go without waiting for him to answer i
grabbed his right hand with my left squatted down and threw him over my shoulders in a fireman's carry he was probably a hundred and eighty five pounds i have to do up and ran
back to safety so there you go just a i understand after you've performed my that in firefighter boys like oh ye we we get it well we yes or we were in one tide to wathe driver
robed then i see was like were across this river bed in all right i mean that's really rely open but must do it so first second and headquarters whatever when across prettiness i
was after point to suffocate we have a lot of guys that are in the military that was to those in the year detonator move on elements going to stay back on the high garonne side
river to cover as the other autrement pushing across yet and this is our first day and country so we're just traveller and about bicause worthing must set nothing other or o p or
strong point on the on the lady is a lot of traffic and um they start him a lover over there an they get about fifty miners away said if i means whatever and then all hell breaks
up shots me where and third squad in force quaesisse are over on the river you know river bed and we start laying in here by ducktown cover and and i'm i'm still stand in and i'm
yelling and the one my guns are shooting to the far left where shiest the far right is right element i walk over night kickheim later you know i shot the mines macassar hard said
is it you to fix his fishing down i told her to shoot i will back over and a direct more traviata some of the the other tertiaries from third coverest fire all the rounds after we
are to gain parterres yell them said you to no better you been here before control your rounds control your fire and and is make sure it's a pressing and then bother went down and
were like a bather got it and he ended up tearing his emile and a miscuisset a man this prevent image and am my first is like the squad going get em i i said all for art nor but i
got it such at my weapon off and i am for it and i like her oldest for me i tossed to my importas i was just you know gets away i ran down then the aim a negro the river bank
right can rabid the ass and you got do not shoot don't you can shoot you know don't you shoot me in the back side motheaten that but i may be don't mansion you as you was iron out
and got him took him back and i said o down saranoff came back and took him about about fifty to eighty and a building set em down at saint town a get drink a water a first sight
like my first agistas nebeck here with okay i ran back as an oak crab where moon rahmat had that masailand i was last one on the adjective i we had to hike back two miles with
butler on a stretcher but as last one with the food the objective a pavin smoke for the kiowas come over and cover our movement to but you guys a yell at the one that told me he
found me held back like we get and i'll start i will fight held back which they were just kept shooting him like yestereen here where you doing her a also man is reality check
it's it's you it's another example in man again just to your talk about how you were in leadership is that you backed off a little bit er your pain attention what's going on
instead of you beat on your going and shoot er back off your death in that you need to do in a larissian you've got a back off a little bit you got observed with happening you got
to make sense of what happening and then you got to make sure the people are doing right things no i mean it you know if i shut my gun i mean that's great i got chance shot my
emporto had do but if i wasn't controlling my two heavy weapons squad you know like i had the two forties on a it can of the battlefield if you will with the heaviest fire patusan
charge of they weren't doing the job the right way that we were all in trouble thee as i were safe out bless thomasin gutters oh ye and that it sounds like that deponent was i
mean the fire fightena about here were to allah you an a lot of fire fights every other day if not every day at soso this one here you went out did this raid um and named you get
word as you do this raid that there's no air craft to come and pick you up from the raid and go ahead and walk back ye that's good time yeah we ah we went out we uh i told my guys
like looks got to be hellas bring extra we had each of us two thousand rounds of seven sixty dane and that we also had um i was carried two thousand rounds of seven six two argus
panganisi it it would change me thousand two thousand and an i carried twenty grenades tenotomy ah armour and ten in my bagmen and other oh twenty forty might my itto or three and
then forenent um five five six grounds like not in my magazines and i always had roanoke two hundred pounds yet what ableitet without ammunition you can to screw it with rise i
was at twelve magazines on my pirson and then i'd have the you know thirteenth one in my interchapters had thirteen full magazines on my mousterien euspasia number just because i
my magpies were very that my magic was you know two deep so i could have six three uneasie um ye and we went out there and in uptilted or five five and we back home we had for
otanes and ah i got i got um i got puttinati and now it's called picton rattlecap when put your savait lincoln you have once i come out and then you you know switch back it in and
elicits when you hook to a gun it pulls out your bag and then if you have another bagnet clipped together hosho there all my rounds one and one of the things which i draw them the
seven eturnial this is so much of that like lighter and i got to another spot and on my my guy's brandon um fastest got the hurt with me later on but he was almost knocked at like
past now so heavy a sigognac my bag he goes on i got to sit as a give me your bag don't argue with me as i kenned to make him act the fob and then a rah or pa then i lie came out
with us awsome guy ranger a regimen is turnin to a doctor he was dehydrating really bad in the lock back gothinians and stuff so um we decided me and two other guys three other
guys would read just like trot ahead and walked faster n er way out and like made a back to the fog first to get a get at um and rapped come get him but they are we actually went
the guys we detained we we we detained alas guys that had so hundredfolds oakboles ararat eries a argentine was a drone filled the arpeggi back on a moreot this compound a cave
forty seven but we didn't get pictures with all their stuff so we turned order looking national government and they said we didn't get pitchers des geyser is as are free to tango
turns out the guy that i am we had to take one of them because we hide them finger prints were all over my bomb and not there was thirteen bums in a row and they're all over the
bonet the one i hit so the guy that we captured as one put the poet elwood caught him and he took care of him so he right sorry i bring it down the tone i've been gone april tenth
the thousand twelve you get him in telling me afternoon that there's a idout evill age and you gushing check it out and here we're going to the book we hiked on me about four
hundred yards to the village an addition of my weapons seemed to wotherspoon on patrol a total twenty eight soldiers my letenant zackery lewis went to the left with the first and
second squads having to meet with the village elders while the rest of our men went with me around the village to the outside to offer support case of an attack along with my gun
team i had my petonar n and matic sergeant daniel bateson with my group all looked calm it was just another day in afghanistan another normal patrol we approached an abandon and a
security posed to portable buildings and stop near the buildings to establish the security perimeter a called for festering the mine sweeper check this area was the only order i
gave festival ed up a path used by villagers and scanned all the area around he went up and back and all was clear no beeps there was no reason to question anything fastened his
mind to reaping duties and went up to and went to set up on the far flank i called riot up the to me and asked him where he thought we should put the gun i knew where i should go
but i wanted to to let him decide making sure he knew his stuff he motioned to exactly where i thought we should put it a good spot and i said all right go get a in bring him up
here that would it ryled left to go get nap and as he did i set my back back down the back packed touching the dirt was all i took such a simple act of war my world erupted i saw
a flash of flame and heard her a huge caboon how jagged pieces pieces of explosives ripped through me a cart wooded backward and over and hit the ground and slap my face hard
against the compacted earth instantly i felt my left eye starting to swell shot i smelled burning flesh my own i tasted dirt and i was wet with sweat and moisture just like i
walked out of a hot shower dirkfell everywhere through the air it rained down and clung to my eyes nose and mouth i don't remember rolling over but i must have because i glanced
this side and saw that my right arm was completely gone i caught a glimpse of my left arm covered in blood and tattered my arm trembled as if it had a will of its own i looked
down and saw my right leg was also gone the stump looked like a piece of raw meat the bottom of my left leg was still attached but held on only by a few strands of skin i saw all
this in a flash in an instant i felt confusion but no panic my first thought of loo was of my guide i flopped my remaining arm toward the microphone clipped to my carrier plane
somehow managed to push the button i had a bomb i said i need help baton my medic rushed up to me along with stateres hambright are preconcertment only about thirty seconds had
passed since the blast immediately they applied turn it is a hold whatever blood was still inside me i'm not going to make it i said leave me and go to save my guide shut up
sergeant mills said basin let me do my job i'd nor bates and and yelled my man's name like roll call fancy rig it nap to eve they were okay two were hit fustian riot and all the
medics were already caring for them they were bleeding but nothing was missing they yell back that they were going to be okay i calmed down more soldiers ran toward me sergeant
alex voiced another medic wondered aloud we best get iv axes there were no pulses to check except for my crater augury he quickly ripped open my vest shave the spot on my chest
and put in hivernates em it hurt going in and i must have howled because he yelled of me that i was going to be fine i yelled back do shut up i know he and i both come down some
one stuck a sentinel popping my mouth it's a pome pain killer that releases as the pop dissolves it down the first one to spit out the stick and asked for another you won't need
it some one said i was still thinking that i was going to die i didn't want to show fear i didn't want to freak out he never wants to see fear round your men let me out blood my
family know i dealt with it without crying i said tell him yourself some one grunted he was being encouraging letting me know i wasn't dead yet i tried to see around me i raised
my head wanting to get a visual effectinat some one shave my head back down by still commanded a voice my one eye was swollen completely shut the other i was blurry from dirt i
tried to raise my head again again i was posed flat my eyes were watering now that dirk turning to mud time passed and i didn't know what was happening i mumbled something but
there was no reply only the steady wapoota black hawk howcome touching down near by six men surrounded me half did me up and carried me over all told it might have been ten
minutes since the blast until the helicopter arrived festinia were first inside the helicopter everything was foggy and noisy and i couldn't make out my surroundings clearly but
two guys want seats and i saw blood and bandages jumble to her direction fashed shrapnel as face rid harakles face legs and hands their images faded away i focused on the noise of
the road or we were in the air and the slight medietate care of me right at yelled in pain i tried to look around some one needed to attend to riot where the medic one of the
medicean to the pilots of front riot was yelling again i looked in fesse direction and told them to come down fessenden riested telling and i winked at him to let him know he was
going to be okay it was all i could think to do the flight medic was i back in view i could barely see him through the gopinis he wore a green flight hotin had a big darted helmet
i tried to speak he gave me a quizzical look i yelled as loud as i could take your helmet off he took his home it off give my guy's water and tell them they're going to be okay i
barked don't worry i'll take care of them for you he said he was busy with some task on me that i couldn't see a moment went by and i added i'm sorry for what the medic asked for
making you take her helmanoff he gave me a ride grim i realized had been doing his job all all along doing it well both the medics had i just conceal it was happening around me my
mind went in and out i was coherent but fuzzies in fifteen minutes the helicopter landed and came to harm hospital staff rushed me straight to the operating table we're going to
put you under now came a voice from above me i'm fine i said leave me alone the mask came over my face no tried to push their way i remember asking one question am i ever going to
see my big girl again lontane here i ah and my best more choice were as i am put in the book i said the flight manihan yell three times and last time to be offward in her take at
an olano i did ah in my head i was just taking said provin don't go out you like for your mom like the medic when you got shot in the movie and ah i just you know i was githa i
had a man for our crane my head and i rolled in and out so bare save rolled away from it um that on a top of the mountain and chop magazine half for got back down and ah so just
the whole duntocher ed i can't change what happened right now ah if i raise my palemone faster and am you know thanks to you my patinage i start to him bright and doc patiendo
voice ah able to maintain most of my boom they must have slapped those things on you quick turn i at hotin tonty second said thirty seconds i think and a was that was the air
craft airborne somewhere and got redirected to you how she got it to hell copter so fast i don't know we usually only went out when it was when there was helicopters on station
umbecast at threats so real m not there would needed talk by this and you got edited out but am at night time the tolman had for rainette wanted we were told because of politics
or whatever somebody said we can git night time so we had the best night time capabilities but we can go out soon the rate camera thirty feet in air we would watch him on the
screen and watched them a bombs in an nighttime and we couldn't shoot him consummates at him i couldn't get him so ah i kind of sucked because you'd watch him put the bombs in an
the next day supposed to go on try to find him and that's why i to thousand twelve say what they wouldn't let you shoomant hit's goin to get em and i go can on night time i like
but there we can see them a man holata about it nervous bother me i do reality it eilie it no one that you don't get political see don't have to in this with me but just watching
him pooms anon i had got tritonid him and then the guy that i found a are we walked back through you know seventy for five fights and ten clicks ah when they went out to do the
servaline sight a couple one up it i i blown up at there was thirteen in a row right there at some reason to my super brandon went up and down not once be twice and nothing
alarmed him so there was six days change together called squad killer so you had to be the front guy hit the first one and in everything he would get just taken out so do way it
was as fritter that i got hit that day than have somebody walked past and hit it and everyone be taken out to ah yes so just dissapation war i guess kind of stock because i would
watch but bombs in a confute the cay was a comissatio and the gay hooting an essay hung our way or dropped at weapons and walk away and all of a sudden they were no longer
combatant until the kid was were out of fuel it we were going to run you know a thousand meters this way because if we did then the guys us take it leather acasto so we ought red
tape but when i got blown up i did really all to an till say i got it i don't know how bad it is a tale meet you away from any kept fighting me off and sold me some you a job then
the doctors worked on me for fourteen hours i was told night no night doctors and seven nurses and two nurses for i arborily long keeping alive like took turns umpanda am i was so
low in blood he did over thirty transfusion say and then didn't have enough in stock they were like on the big speaker i can a horsing a positive blood and universal we need it
now and they were right from elates adieu for like you know possible gagarin like that because it was just laertiades yet cool ighting from your blood were right in him um they
not me up medically you know maybe i conscious um in the kettner four days so i derealize now irassa god bless em machinegunners but how in a little god bless the doctors in her
forsure all at helen the medic semidiameter tatini i go no speak i i oh my onside repersentive and i sat tolou know what the guy is that it not made bacon and i'm thankful still
be around and in living in imeretian you know for them it's so that you know they are sacrificed wasn't in vain because what happened is nowhere near what appendy francis jean
felt a forth of franky great friend of mine he died you know the one a wife and a four year old at the time so i'm tak o for the medical ah advancements in vietnam augusta come
back like me and i get sometimes you like wesensoe like you during the vietnam were as just as so sad this happened i say well that i registerin come back or you know so so yea i
mean in the doctor who at tidings in and my cap as was on the end of my left leg now i guess for patting or something ah just nuts you know but am that was in the tent and then i
saw him elemented working one my wristbone operty bad by my finger a ladex might mid all my thumb and then to days later and bogra they cut it off my brother in law flew in from
his outpost a kind are with me and escorted you guys set to fill blue books out running for it a poy recalled the blue book it like if i die bearing me with this is it's not a
blue book but we do we do do that yet ye why i don't know it was yet like a little boat like cauthe blue book an army but just like i did you know i want a watering i want
petrolia might kid or you know i at this news the play of bacalan or funerals kind of morbid but i guess it's all right m but he was a galesus as for my body back home so he came
to where i was at and then they ship me to borona twelve and i was all day took a look at my hand like miss not gonna make it it's just negativing and you know them lengths it
huge thing so they cut it off em and then so they intil him their doing its wierat rolled in a surgery in he came back and he hand was gone ah but i didn't know easton madie said
dated and then two days later they went were the very first time money before ten and i will up in the room i'd rather low he was on tell me but what i i don't know if i'd put it
in the book etithei did it before teen actually my birthday he so my twenty fifth birthday i found out as quadruplicates funny cause how my first appointment when i didn't nobody
have ritten and things and josh registered of mine not a real i like look i'm very athletic i palisot if i if i lose a wag or some just let me bleed out like i mean i was that no
yvain teen years old langila a hand just i don't i don't ned to live you know cause i didn't know any different were not have i wake up no arms in leilie algae which i made i
guess um meanwhile back on the home front go into the book allusive to call at eleven fifty three a m her time while standing at her parents kitchen at dallas texas us making a
tune of fish sandwich and and then it's the commander on the phone and she describes you know he he calls her straightforward you know the severe injury and this is what she wrote
in her journal i could not rap my head around the pain my husband must be feeling i was all alone in the house and my action upset my daughter to the point where she was screaming
i could do nothing to soothe her i couldn't pick her up i couldn't look at her my body felt like he was being torn in two i wanted so badly to be able to talk with to travis and
let him know i love him and that i thank god that he was still alive then it continues on calyce my dad in michigan but when she tried to tell him what happened little would come
out my dad knew something was wrong and kept repeating is he alive is alive is he alive from then your dad said this until you go through something like that yourself it's hard to
describe the feeling there is no eating any more you don't leave the house there's a lot of pacing around you just wait whenever the phone rang we jumped you look at the phone and
you don't know if you want to answer it or not so it was an obviously wasn't just you the got hit um to you know your your family back home gets hit with the shock of all this and
all also in your squad there aunt yet there which is the cause name ever the riastartha athos the riot as i mentioned merlier um tahe got one did his it is pretty bad i mean he
was able to get walkullas after he was to as you so for quite a bit i didn't and incessant hit as well he did and lucky yet as some glasses on a because he his face was just
blasted but he saw his visions doing great how he ingaged so am i mean that ye is just a bad day you know my dad when he says he you don't eat and do that stuff he actually was in
the hospital with me i got dirtily this real bad and i almost did he so die dried had goin in like give him surgery i like it years months pried be made to by but had a class be
back cause you got so died dryed ah because he cared so you know it was just so so worry some for him you don't even when i woke up a kind of a dick i didn't want it like my
brother man is like you got a call ill you know kellorane maman dan in a comitat anybody can't you to anger your set your question in em that's got hate me in my bad person what
do you wrong in life to get this i mean i pay my taxes you know i have a family why with this happen to me and then a little bit goes like four com for it's like with an a damn
like no what what what the hell you know why i lived to this am i this some kind of sick punishment that for some idea wrong and am i mean to come no realization like hey you know
what sometimes bathing as happen to get people and is what it is you can't change it you might keep us aboard and nothing i did wrong in life it's just boleslas so you know that's
what happened the i i i thought it was interesting him ah get one of the guys on the men of acord look rotrou a face book to cause and was explaining you know what it was like and
and uh yeah i mean here here's what he wrote my name is first sergeant wait the other medic the other fight medic was that sergeant hawker smith you belong to a family of warriors
other wounded soldiers in the air craft or injured in screaming but your husband was for more about more worried about them than himself he described at he describes that hawarden
the thing callimachus helmet off and and ah you know here come back to the book his face was dirty and there was dust in his eyes but he never shed a tear i replant mind a moment
when he looked at aeroed soldier at another one a soldier and winked to reinsure that it would be okay my crew was still on duty in his unity area now we go back to kandahar
monday but we won't go back the same way i am an eat but this easiest example for myself and others to emulate i actually i had a giostra ped down side o get my arm out cause when
i was young an i as i at taking off is a taking one enough that finally i got my arm i'm now for all we conscious man that rencontrez good genes against ah you know but i plymouth
said take your you know how an effort homing off and i put my hand over my head to motion ly you don't as my arms drooping down or at everbut i just take a helmanoff and then he
did not like it my guy's watch and be fine and then laid i do apologise for yellow madamoiselle mistaria in all but if you know it that i i guess it may be was easier for me to
like think about everything else gone except for myself or you know and i just i just figured it is wariwarie who happens goin to happen and i doesn't do me any justice to scream
altiere afraid i mean hey i can't change was going on right now so just do we bess i can do you know help situation yeman and an joshes up what you you know you just talked about
this and that in just you say ham when i tell to straight umbecast you asked you said a josh he my paralyzed and i'm going to the book here no man jossier not paralyze you don't
need to lie to me i whispered i can take it i'm going to tell you straight jonne i'd want to know the truth you're not paralysed but both your arms and legs are gone the date was
april fourteenth he thousand twelve still the same day as when i heard the news i was a quadruped it was my twenty fifth birthday tom you talk about the pain and i think this is
something to people don't get myself included um ah the pain was so bad part of the pain was the thought of what i become i could hardly picture the new me yet the pain was more
than emotional it was the physical pain it coursed through my body i felt like i was on fire i tried to focus on my breathing and take stock of why my pain was so bad you if all
the medications flowing through me i still felt like i was in a red hot vice i could hardly take it i knew josie lied to me but my arms and legs still felt like they were attached
my hands felt likely were burning like some one i was clamping them inside of an industrial furnace but my hands weren't there but flames were eating away my ligaments my nerves
my skin my legs my fan and legs were clamped in that same fire bolts of agony surged from limbs that weren't the register weren't there and registered to a brain that still was
the pain came and went came and went came and went jostard in his seat and leaned or started his eaten closer traversando get the nurse nurse i in say anything i was itchy and
sweating bad he pressed a buzzer then then went out and got a cool cloth and laid it on my forehead when nurse came in and up to my more pie just before i went under again
everything that i'd always drove into myself rushed through my mind never show fear never let your guide to you and pain don't cry out even when i been lying on the ground right
after the blast i'd felt pain then but i hadn't showed it when that i view was shoved through my chaff that was chest it was painful but i wasn't going to complain then you don't
let people down you just don't but this time the pain was so bad it was still so bad even with more pain killers in me now so bad so bad so bad this time i wanted you the
unthinkable to words rose then began to voles within my throat josh i said yea what do you need buddy i swallowed and whispered two words i quit neot good i ah don't know i mean
it is a lot of pain i guess i don't know why you etienue tion like in my going to be a burden on my family great why how you know my life should she stay with me and it would i
have left off or am my daughter maggie a monster when i get to sea or finally and then likewise alethes why did you know what that make it not that i'm i guess angry i lived here
at the time of you know when that was happening i wasn't so much angry as more questions like why welwa's what's the purpose why not just let me go up my life gets you now for a
thousand from the government and then then she can go remarry and have somebody that's able bodied and and the happy life but that you know a lot of questions are you know when
your sitting a hotel room i mean a hospital bed you know and astoroid you just got there feeling all time he is never know what what think in the military easy everything is laid
off for you the yereafter plans oleron to do is how rangitane there it is all known and that pain like for missing limbs it sounds freaking horrible ally i mean it was like a
spite getting drove through my heel a finger nails getting like just ripped off and then see her than it was just it would bed or causes that ah why mean aloof it is panamanian so
your nerves try to find where your hands and your feet are and they can't find it they try to read direct and keep trying to find it so it's just one of the shang he know that to
another and then they are in you your pietate had like six per mental an things an try almacan and after the second one they tried um i like all i feel a little better than he the
doctor like was all side in not like an all the pains back and i went you know got all yelling out and paying stuff when he just he actually cried he felt so bad because it was to
the point where they got a find some cure for war i'm going to be so am ahtiago ye agony or i'll i'll be so used to the medication ah that is er the doses are going to get to the
point where i'm going to do an you know because i'm on to be ill so rodicaso er in hitherward right now calame ah you talematongue my tolerance would be so high that i'm going to
end up old an dey of course she thus cut out yere you wonder where you get your sense of humour you're telling your dad what happened you like i stepped on a mind went flying
through the air i did a one eighty it was crazy well travis my dad said the important question is did you look good doing it yet i i mean i think i hit ye told um and meanwhile
celie she she or you been voice in some of these concerns like about he can it even be a good dad now canoeman be burdened your kind of talent josh some of those things and she
told or he told kelsey and here we go back to the book my brother told me the travises nervous to see me because he doesn't know how i all reactor if i will continue love and as
my husband these werry seems so trivial to me because i will love him through sickness and how from till death do us part i'd not use those words lightly when we got married i
will be by his side every day for the rest of our lives whether he likes it or not i know his natural reaction will be to push me away because of embarassment to feelings of
letting me down but i just wish i could constantly reassure him that my love for him is on wavering ye i'm monuste her she should go as it youantee we have the house is yours the
cards the your selling you know whatever and do ye need to do all in unslender i can you know and she was a tawasentha cap parking ensalada ma you ought i there's like a level of
lochinvared when you get married and carey you are a no you like do you could easily marry like satan anoatok i know you i do plenty of guys that have made some really bacacayes
cause just like a okay understand if you have the great courting saying and all that nearhan that you can make a good decision that that's great but like a alaister you young
you're like you do what we're getting married and there's just like a flip of a coin and in you've got a saint i mean i litely diffel seventeen days in person you know who would
be great wesult mexico and the salariat mary and i just got married he was due that is be great story for everybody it was it worse or not we the mad he scored for sir ahint she
got lucky have me to tawi didn't really pick that up but from okay we'll know that danenfels star close one verse i see get back to walter reed and in a haymouth i got back and am
the first ally i see helywse that home work a moment you know sakehow he so much as actually as getting rushed in i relate leaner leg ripped open i like missus millar charismata
you hate the sins hesper ah he asked the gators coffers right leg when he dear consenting olansen ashes lie what and she was passes out like missus ninian he to sound the paper
and i'm yelling to sign the paper it's okay in and she sighed in a for some anserous real quick yet he had hachiman they went in took my leg to inches off on the right and
resealed it next days when i tell her like you know this isn't binding that you signed up for you you can go and you know you're not miss no big deal i'm not worried about it
she's like no no how this works we got throtter and then they you know they induced me into this coileen pause the pain was so bad oetting my talent left about up for the pain
mads and ah she sat when my bed like twenty hours a day in a knowing i wasn't like up for five days like werpen it off for five days so yes so this was crazy thought reading about
in the book you herrings horrible horrible pain like undescribable pain is this basically an experimental thing procedure that they did not eyanaco the nation never have the
cademy coma and thirty from the world and sinicae that he's on the cademy cola is six hundred mellow milligrams of kadmin per hour yes or i go around the clock hum as he
weltbeschreyten thing some sure they are different maniement but a day when they did it you go in and then i just circulates through it supposed to reset your brain to think where
you're neventer they end and you know you come out and it's just ouonab i crazy ayeing ant is what it was real life to me he no the otoliths from your honies when you get to with
look it gone out of the coma yoacomoco five days which is just black nothing right there's no nothing nothing there then you goin to hoontin you got um chasing kids that stole
things from walmart e got ganistan that you're out with gained his can you're a swatting to get you you got you and your cousins a writing skateboards in a tively show you got
yourself playing hockey in the anal um i was particular concerned about a fifty year old gogo dancer that crawled on a leash downthrow of walter reed dot one made me a little bit
now is a clarionet the graver from sign felt stops by so say you go this massive hallucinations that that's freaking leered yet i mean i gets it lent where again i tangents and
they said for the first like seven days you know as can be bad then after that i'll start to fade out at ten days you should be able to tell when you are having one or not but i
remember my fan malcom in one morning in the capstans on like for oswald was like a corn in gold or eleven it a triple hatherick he's like all asta's great and then i thought that
way i got blown up and i woke up the very first day i thought that this guy from my home town made a drag toward comment ward my mom i wife my daughter and my body's not jumping
the car and chased him and when on the road a mackerel my two best friends and i i made my mom and my when i for all and to leave to those a hundred per cent i told my brother and
all the story doesn't intently erintendent told my wife and he listens at all yeah it bates go with it said try like argue with me i like eranthis and i called nay bodies a
message like i am so i i hope you're not dead i fell and i finally came out of his nation and i reshipped to my botallack i use came an thank should die you lietenant ellendeen i
as i gaditano know that's like don't tax wen you're from conover you know don't it don't call people be vested you to your own onseen day whose oterton left you messages there
tribes friend so cool and both anointer i killed jurati i children and ah and then i got the borregueros going on there so i started having other one m and as like all assoluto
and then find the ages aonian of people that jos was in my room and as like josh because what i see dat maasau sees me on just katatiatatas i look at that feeling is like all
around me like what we were like oh my gosh gosherie like jade and the other goodnessness with i got the hang of it as also a nakid of like did it all right like yes so i did but
five more months of pain pills um and then fondly like an act over a home for thanksgiving and north carlingham house at fort bragadocia cacama outlining a more him done is like
you can't quit easiness and daughter the one sosie five days of pain and then now no medication nothing i'm good to go so the cameo with him a documentary is it you know he says i
won't do it again but that was five my after the fact i still like doing paying cutbill as ef i formosae the fact i guess cause in september ah but looking back like that was the
best the best thing for me to get me past the you know the pain part and then on my recovery you have second person that ever had that done i guess in the nation at cries eh um i
atisara takeout your kind of transition than to le going back to bookbacks i love the challenge the quest succeed in the arenas been a challenge for me my situation now is a
quadruplicate out the same sort of dare to succeed sure if i could a change things i wouldn't have been in the situation but i couldn't change things being a quadruple was my new
reality i could quit for good i could shut myself off from the world i could will myself to die or i could fight forward and keep on living the legit well i mean i came down to a
choice of them to day am i was still here melitensis my daughter let things go they my monster still laughed at snoggles up with me and you know i mean when she first saw me
though she generally afraid of then short arms short legs fuzzy chastellet bernalillo and you know but this one can talk as it off in the actor i never been started my mom i did
be my mom's knows one time to hold efrem story caradine ida we were at mainhatch en which men i was seventeen my dad was trying to mess with me but my slapbacks he bill you did
you go take me emlie no brothers playing may sat to me o milesmen carved back of my head and scariest my life ah you don't make her mad yet but anyway so as only stern one time my
mom i woke up you know nupstairs i could as it were clothes like all the arcanis be your sleeping that's a don't ever let me sleep through that again that's the whole reason that
i'm a will still keep functioning is cast my daughter and you know i'll be in there my wife but you know the mental part was a worse bet four o'clock to a clock at night i could
have the light on in my in my apartment some in doitit was like operante sat sweating robed i just i mean now in fine but the first i inopiae six months out just like no lights at
this time it's quiet aware in atlanta in me a sort of watching like i watched a yelvis you were training as you are now be learning everything i look and i never really understood
when people said cayote you don't got relearning to walk and you got a real and i didn't really make sense but bitterly clear to see when you wash your progression what that
looked like like to how you are clearly relearning how to walk like i never said that but when you watch the videos and the the progression that you made you can see that that's
what it looks like when you first stood up on like oh yeah looks like he learned walker and cheer enough you got better and better and it's pretty amazing and and not two things
are going to find out what it when i was a son to my ah recovered the first thing i learned how to walk with my daughter we just kind of cool again me the short legs and i was
stumbling around and she was tumbling around the whole hands in next thing you found out my love for file she takes because i do less work out and stuff like that the jimmie but i
went from two fifty to one forty and is real skinny and then off senatorial and fatter and sat a causalitatis ion and stoical filicites so a tryin to work on that now but like my
progetti got better i got fat or to the thing got a visit from a guide named tad nicely and that more apout lot ah my competitive edge did he walked in on his face legs and two
vicars and you first thing if his moistened woont the club i lay i'll be in your club on the kindly now don't you think i locked myself in to you got me there then ah as you
walked over said you want general and he heard me wrong and he went over the counter or the singin or neath the sink was was a twelve backage entrail and a hooked on it like crack
at the hospital i got off it now but you was he bent down on one knee bend on one other new reaches it was vacant it out posstaphore arm and walks or handing her you go like all
now i ask if you wanted one but before i had the full sentence out i said how did you do that it's a hammonton on the second ever welcome the club read the fourth a quite replete
o make back home you can be fine i loved missouri with my wife like dry but have a boat i do ever i want i walk they just take time and ah he said almoro your marrow you know this
is like i'm still thinking him in olinto mode this is a miss leghma be eight nine days after my last my or kermes almost an he's like i work out in one so the doctors come in and
i'm no kai got a work out to day like you can't work out you know now is like no alyosha i've been one work how italienische said i can we not one o'clock and i like we're not
ready i had livinallongo what you don't get buttermore and out today than i he southin about it said holly every half hour for hour straight of insanity and i went in to meat
tidiate work out now let em my stomach with the pelvis but no pattern remainder my stomach or whatever seatres my pallas muscle back out and he pinball sick twenty minutes best
work out of ever done but am i start my cover that day and in as far as the fiscal of easy i isoline to the physical challenge an the mental was hardest part from me i mean
baronet was in was the worst you know i couldn't look myself to me for a while there said like i saw you see my my arms and the scars um just over all mass that that i was and am
thinkin now ginte burden and all that so i just hates how it went to the more capable you got to more comfortable you got in your new skin yet well i found out that they let you
go for one hour and then of physical epinonville and then let me do another one and another one to turning the four hours of of each so eight hours put in eight hours a day at the
gym in my recovery for it's a gemman i racial and how to use my hands how to wash myself again how to dress myself again ah there how to drive learned how to do all that stuff but
it took nineteen months of at watered thirteen months and paper work was after that to get out but compensate you you um you eventually went met your guys on make came home though
that's i did an awesome i disuse goals am when i was in a hospital my birthday i call my life my mom and dad and i was basically really short pig as was up fine lovey by that's
all i wanted to say i didn't want to talk at conversation to go over what happened me am i kept very sore but i told her brother in sin i have to call my guys in my unit you need
to find a number to my strong point in let me talk to him so there's a pitcher going round where i have ah a baseball cap erasure and i have seized rolled up and a helmet off some
glasses i mean everything out of standards you know they have standards or whatever and i got home my serge major since amatoris sorry understand you i take my rank i should alarm
i do apologise now the pictures on papa's like you're crazy to think just get better your fine and then i got a hold my my guys and i told him guys in fine i'll be okay not be
there when we get back from afghanistan i'll be there at the you know the ramp to give you as a hut on my tall legs and it took me while i got my tallest morning from they got
back had to work out three hours the andante tall legs don't bend but they got was a were now but to make me at least six foot all well you can't take those legs alleston stand up
on you fall down so the whole day that there is walkuerenfels they knock down he what the hell like that's not trustful i put catherine's posed to go my eyes and trust your
ontogenesis you're like that's the catch you got to gourel acuter faceret no i had i had two of the miss therapist bayous for it no i carry and jonnage back to whereas at but i
did meet my guide in the first one first elegant itobad on you know it's a man thanks for all you did they didn't you end up doing a five c five caron so it why me at intilligint
goal yes so time i a came in when he met me he had four fire fires also for tell the towers five kitty do in new york city and they also they partner would garnet to build houses
and things like that for guy's even through comatic injuries and there like a working have a fine case of timberville push you i like not walk it and i will yabous you is so big
deal as i know you are and he comes in a walk it and i edna like yet but if you do aletta's cool so don't have to new york city at my dad birthday as a day after i walked the five
kai came out of brocklebank in no camusot down now like a tiemaker i got mine you know one point two miles or something to go my right leg i woomp tely rubbed raw now sheeting and
side my socanis it's it's good i i've met a go i've walked over to you know two miles now and ah i came out of the town there steerforth three fire fighters with banter on an
aconite eleven at thought joke with those guys and gals in led on the life stairs then alminy die you know try to say licinius this side i was so worn i was bad but i didn't did
finish it in in um a venture year lake he sate your driving down you went out to dead like mountain by keenan skiing and all the other kind of just getting after it basicranial a
better term um and then you and then you retire you retire from the from the army and and what your next move your next move as you figure out you're going to a house or go to
move too but had moved to man my wife is from maine a regely i owed the heat doesn't do well it pities cause your blood circulates faster n you comes back more mer but when you
were the heat rybody had hands of feet so miss you know for the five and then my later capt off so if i were painter for here short said the same there's no air hither my body and
ah yes so we we sir in a move to maine we didn't start in on profit to help with care packages at first then we grew with two there were treats center that we have here in maine
and am i really through my work at walter read i was at weltered was such upbeat person of the same person as before the blast i was still going in have catherina cause i made
people annoyed but i'll depletive other have i walked for iddiads i'd go but my toon i turn on cathanna they had we just rock out and are i unfortunately saw videos of the like
dancing who cannot be unseen apparently furniture now in your malatambu ah you know they cared as if i'd meet people upstairs and start out hey you know travis we have a guy up
sir like an teenagers room number but if you could talk and merely help he's not in forty one in these not in forty three but you can find him no i'm not a marine so you know i
was in smart enough to find that a number forty two hill et cranahan y so i ah well go talk to him and it turned into the cave we arpajon he's missing two legs a his mamas mother
in law as to kids or here to go see him i told me be up round this time and a that's how the book got a started my documentary got started and then the foundation was just as all
the not prophets at weltered in great things killeenan to give back some way shepperford in this is how we decide you know that we can get back to best the so i'm what count
calmor about the foundation though a ginsthe transmit donation was started really just for care factors over seas and then i went out to comradancow hill mountain liking and doing
things and then i realized that walter e does a great job to take in the service member out there though think that the government doesn't lack but because of the funds have to go
to the soldiers they don't get to bring all the families at my wife got to go because needed this sistance on things but a lot the guys that could take care of themselves couldn't
bring their loved ones and that's fine that's okay but we thought we could do something in that and that a space my whole reason for getting better was my wife my daughter easily
so we started bringing family out we did it for one week of a year and we brought family's onomato things a deathly kickin canoe and things they did another one in it went so well
we thought what we should buy a properties with bought a property specifie hundred thousand dollar project now that three million dollar project ah wu your first week of program
early a first year programs this year i did seven weeks fifty six families and it we bring him up now we holohan's per week out to forty people masolino things we have a place on
the water for kicking a canoeing and two being in boating and we just uh the horseback riding and archery and is always activities have broke score and we just say you know that i
understand what you're going through i understand i can get tough here a network of people that are just like you whether you live in chicago and the inner city are you live in
the plains of montana reach out understand that these families both is same thing am fulcombe when you come here that you can fall out of a caecina's going to freak out they're
goin understand where you're going through and it's just as much of a a place for thee the love ones you know the wives they can talked on their wives are are spouses and the kids
can run round to the you know what my dad has one magnian arm but this dad has two legs missing in that pretty cool because they know we're going through and after our first year
operations in running it was such a great success were going to do ceteian ship as autonomous at sarmatian and they'll donate what it costs for a week in the runner on a retreat
up here as well so were ah talking of with both a or families as well as pechent because right now i foison lilas or paralyzation but this hopefully well run forty for five weeks
at the year it's all donation based in the cool thing is like as the president in the six other word mereside have we don't take a dime we never will were auditing ourselves right
now so he gan the see of sea the command federan and all at getting back so if it's been really rewarding and in fulfilling in ummad be the out there helping his family's cope
with her a situation and tell nattee's heather like you keep going ever the life on the side lines and it most importantly never go up and never quit if people want to help this
organization were the best wickstead that visit website travels milord and has all the omission the foundation is wasted on aton line there's wasted to volunteer options we know
we had people fly in just avanti for the week and help as out and there's also you know was to corporate sponsorship we had way far come in donetur new balance came in donated em
to us and things like that so were growing um we believe in our mission we know we can do this and there's other things who want to get accomplished out here oh what do you build
multipurpose enter a way a fool going in at things like that but it's all about giving back and and ah the mind set of the serf number that were trying to host and the family so
the book topas they come that's what we read to day do it it's a great bulk i read as small shelter that am yeah you can pick that up or anywhere where they sell books and were
about the documentary so the documentary i called traviata story it was done into other fourteen and was actually a unveiled the gefiele and um we took first place in fitified
short films i got to meet margaret's melitta night was really really great to meet them and now netikenen for a two year run so we got on that flixecourt to watch that it
sonnetically sort of story um men it just elsa whose story it just as i fulparnee through heat and if you met a cette too max similie actually are reenacting me getting blown up
in the two guys get hurt or in the documentary as well they are my brother and all saltpeter there are in the documentary no between the book and washing the documentary and you
get to see the face is everything it's really a isreal to oolerfer and um what about social media as your social media presence said is a popular it's not yours intialo we luisito
thousand some strong and our face book page i do little videos ah my daughter learn how tire shoes yether day we thought or in the morning and you know by like me tirlie seven my
night o'clock she tied by herself given into a to time your shoes on line but just as asterisms my page if you want a check it out thermidor that theveral hell yes and it's torter
integram and faced bouton all three as segrave mills that's that's where you can find it um yes you know you you you put the the last thing in the book like the last line in the
book he said to live in freedom to go forward to love your family to make something of your life the never ever give up to never quit that success and the obviously um in my
opinion if if never giving up and never quitting is the definition of success that i think you the most successful person of ever met my life brother feriola that i just we we
rise people that a enone that when is all this and the lives that our lost i mean you had a lot of bodies on sure that did make it a home immisit uation not not life ending my
situation is just i got a couple horsepondine from my legs on a mormon take my daughter tomorrow's actually dogs orientation at school i can to take her my wife and i just had a
baby am animi named a little boy after my two medics is named decks idea x after daniel axanda for the mexicali so then will i still be here ah through all this smoke and ermine
dust ah it's al sale now and i'm living life to the fullest in doing vesicate sure that people understand like coes on and i never ever i give up and never quit avenges the
closing to a me i'd just obviously want to think everybody went into this i mean from my union on the ground i know was a heavy guy you know walronds hundred pounds that get you
know with a gerinan all that to get me out there was great the medical staff doctors nurses um hysterical therapist everybody ah i wish you my family i went into it i loathings or
be there i my side my beautiful wife in my wonderful children am for you know really accepting what happened in moving forward in life and just a you know they are by no youcon
always affect your you situation if i itself in byeways confect our attitude and that's that's where i find the most ah i guess the most realization in my situation i can't always
effect if i drop something on my hand you know i can't pick it up right away or have to do something wereand get mad about it cause get mad doesn't i'm get mad in doing things i
always try to keep my hat to fatima keep us a forward but thanks here have me also at that you raven here both o joe i didn't look at you very much i i i know what we talked about
the tiller he said not you said not to a turnout to set your discretion for sure he got rid this and he is like look at you more if you oopset perfection then should come and on
um of course i thank you for your service tithes great nation not only the soldier and a leader on the battle field but for you continued service that you do to day for veterans
and also for the biggist that i think you give everybody that hears about you come tinona to with you in any way and that is just a boivin example of grit and of the termination
and of will and i just think you the absolute model of what it means and what people can accomplish if we do as you say that is to go forward never give up and never ever quit
precicion brother i saraband after a little administrative break travis has left the building pretty damn awesome yet to have him on man ye um then any and every excuse that a
person might have its human being just got destroyed yea yea and he really can illustrated how hard it got spread the timewhen he was like when he said oh i quit and the rubies
and it's kind of like it makes just a kind o when you're around them now and you see just how he is a kind of really brings to light how good he is now henand and he couldn't at
that moment in time and would people get into that darkness they don't see that he can't be answer the future than antedating are going to get better they can't see no for him at
that point in time there's no way it was going to get good ye they know so fatha's very true very true i notinstanin that when you see again where he is like concerned about his
men and even when he said i quit he was concerned about like his wife then like that was the significant element onoway shellfish person also oh well speaking of being awsome ye
and no charles you are all we think if we can talk about them as some american made stuff that's a good idea i like recollector gin or gin mean dot com but yet orgin that's the
brand so what his origin were in league with origin i like to expression in league with by the way a mother told you that before the thereby forty so this is straight up the best
american made peril in the world you can you on't have to say the best american made a arouses a partin the world and its american made ye is that subjective i guess it's kind of
subjective but if you say i fiestas american mate well i guess it all technically might be out on a fetwa do they and it's all made in america but here's a thing about made in
america i guess i don't know i could be wrong about this parenthetically you could be like ye they they sewed these on a opener whatever you know in america like hey where'd you
get the material all well you know we got it from somewhere else not in america which i guess is cool technically it was made as craftier so you figure what like letschin pants
right you get the material from america but how do you make the material the actual cost in words caught in one from you grow it has a vacation like trees like a bunch of em by
the way i'm quite none the less so where do they get where is origin yet that cotton america what about the seed to plant the cotton there for america free her siestra up from the
coverlet from the feet to the pen that you get in the event of your getting pens rather there's other stuff does and owns good one the geese if you're in to you just unless in the
pan that i got the jaggers you asked me honeylike the innothent jaggers there kinelike they have a different shape than the old school swain so i was like okay you know an i
looked into those hostelites story where i ordered some ironically from overseas i ordered him from overseas they looked pretty good and let werdende come in by the way this was
about a year and a half ago still didn't come in by the way but i looked into it atagher but probably not for me full attic you know it's a sign one of those deal either way i get
pedone on my dark coordinate these i put em on surprisingly legitimate s far as the licosia that i am like i look here in anam which is a lot because i just kind of met petines on
over the past week anyway good stuff serenissimis good stuff and again all made in marcal of it as some geese on there some cool rash cards the the george washington rasheedee
like we're ready for the one come back so yes so peace should ye good at that one yes then the less origin man dot com and when i say men it's the state man so origin in a
miantomah's a good one the best really when it comes down to it also jocasse supplements crill which we need in joint warfare so really this is like a full on like joint cauchemar
three for oshiroyama joined warfare is like caibestaing regardlessly you'd think you real joints boom good it's is more to it than that is like what a glad blue cosin could ever
all like a basically all the stuff that you do have been taking four years if you say the nanticoke on my own jocatore there we have it now tom have enough too produite curled
joint warfare that is the one thus the kit a sinneken for his kit skill also those are also an ordinance by the way ye ye origin mean dot come also on it so you know we been were
on a trip reyno in the event of people not knowing that run a trip to me an i didn't bring the kettle bells i thought that i that might have been too much blessynge you fifty
pounds riding your marries my call bells and one got about more than fifty bums none the less ye found ye in your case my sixty two a toga the war times two hundred twenty four mo
mats on point there was the guiskipat we went through that brought the canal bells the seventeeth whatever when the girl on one from on it to to cool on i didn't i didn't work out
with him though i was going to i want to do i intended to anyway those grille and where wolf kanibles that i'm talking about these are the cool kettlewells therefrom on it these
all kittabia good really but if you want that level up of coolness yet get those infinitum flash jocolate jump room there the bunch of cookites stuff if you're gagging in your
work out which i do sometimes i like him i work at nine lie like physically but on interest as now you get kind of board not you you don't have bordentuere doesn't matter right
rarest border not yet ariconian ing not what to to yes well some of us see kind of faranno that were getting bored or not going to do it we're looking for something like an enemy
try this new thing some new hotness in regard to work up to us not say new hotness any more i spent i heard it in hers willith sat in a lot of it on them at tionglek certify it
for the part in them nor i figure i tried out to the snow is too spirited all deckerated officiate on the new cool stuff it to do any eruption hayman look out to have all these
one they have battled ropes and maces and coolsingel on their by the way don't get addicted to the website spin appropriate amounts of time on the website not too much memorare
you talking about like you know when you watch a video then on you two and then another one bobson six of em papoar all all formulated for you i nowise iall were for that bird you
too munchkin sat her like an no entites that's after he went i see another street fight then the tortoise icenway just what or for that eye on the website on the on it website
because they have videos real interesting but they are about work out though a lot of em so it's kind of it's kind of raceth twenty two onontio about working out does not replace
oronooko no not at all chickango to get after it for sure but all at options on their own on a dot com flashed olcott's the one right there all so you know what the in this mean
so some guys came to the camp he brought the two hundred pound bag bag of roulong but it's like gravel when hilly and the challenge is to pick it up over your shoulder two hundred
pounds so even that really i mean that's not that easy to underrate what when they're explaining it to it was mike gerard bryanite expatiated to me well while they explain in it
to me i'm thinking o ka i know what a hundred fifty pound dumb bell feels like when you lifted up thinking claget that and that has a handle and balanced by the way sonlike shoot
to toilette could do that could i could do that and then they're like a yailak that i've done it and i'll caseine done like it's i it's obviously not like to sing in eters of
practice or whatever so like but man at an now and then sure enough to ewen i went did it it was like it was hard i failed the first one a right you bring it up you kind o bring
it on to your lap it two hundred pounds then does not like it's like you know how you say when you get when you pick up a a a person and they're just dead we and similar to that
anyway bonfalot first sign the cheering me on thanks for that by the way guys that helped me and then the second time i did it is a good one of the high points anyway that that
was a esides just or sunbonnet an after ask me e i did not participate in the challenge i haven't injured ride that was that yet you were erlittenes on your face landerinette the
reds almost seal ah that is andy landiani do that my ribs he and all way and this is i think you paid a bigger price than me but you missed up my robin in identical way a few
months ago or you were in a good omission on me and then if you are yourself now i ran it i was escaping to mission boesienge the same situation but instead this time you got
their ribbandry dear stead of the gate or trinities so yeena way good for you you know and i hope you weave all learn something from this whole thing today anyway also when you
buy this book and you will and should tops they come toss is they come travis no get it to our website that's a good way to support i belittle section we have a little section
books from the pota click on the hat be by episode this is ah you is a good way to support click through their astringent amazon even if you're goin to do any other shopping boom
even just as good a way to support that way just click through gets a book that's a good way waring reaction small click click on to it's like two more clicks supersacred asked me
is he does it really help the pot cast till i do the amazon clara and i said absolutely it really does and i as it will like how much and i said walsall the way i hold describes
it it's basically the way of coteries i small action big reaction so yet you ivery ride on that one is yet i hetiti had a feeling from the beginning that that was that the good
way to put it and it is really also subscribe to the potash is a good way to support stitcher i tones cowily all these ones that provide plaaces oh the seems in knowing that
everyone probably has done already but you know if you haven't subscribed to the ovation if you're in the mood livery view that's a good one some good reviews on their already
thank you guys for doing that very california colorful is that a good ergoteur creative foreread yes good their hundered from time to time also you too if you like the video or on
a watch the video version of this plot cast see what traps looks like see what jackals like see what i look like if you're into that oh yes subscripted getten get a little older
than we plod of ideeeee and just watching what we look like there's other things that come from the otocan yaada not on the picaresca the right florette i'll maned videos that you
make with your creative um spin on the er the ah there's just straight excerpts right and in there's a deleted scenes ye belated things having him put some more on there i there's
a few i know wathen he kind o got through and i then i want you know when i did a right so really the eddard editing process pretty simply cut off the big inning you cut off the
end of faded in faded out down that's it o ye but the part of that i cut off there's some omnumi of an eight endower in the in the moment i'm talking to you to irregular were to
stalking and whatever may be well agin me be not when you cut i go back and listen to it it's kind of funny anyway i'll put some of some of those on their too so you if you
subscribe to the u to tell you can watch those they are cool they exert are just kind of like god menesher old smaller you know no i get of jocko wisdom in us cool i mean you know
if you don't want to listen to the hall by gas as were the thing in it in fact there is a couple of people were there like yeah i listen to those they the guaca yes a guy listen
to those exerts i homester day because they are like ye there's a lot of em there now too but we also joculator called jocatore jocko stored up tom is some sure an there he wanted
support so i'm not saying by a sure i'm not saying by a hat god has a new snap back snapped back my bad i thought the felashas father's flexit choerades to ye as the astolphos the
world doesn't meet him yea it almost doesn't make sense well maybe i do know i throughout the reflex it but you know what i had i looked into it and i realized that the um the
reason that i thought the reflex is because some new hat some coming up with a avenelles they are like there are different style a hat and their flexit they looked up to by the
way also m to one day go oh so you i d not say hey i'm nothing any body i by a sure my rasher whatever i'm thingonthetop joculator look on their check out the eden with me he
likes something get something from what his on there saw women stuff on patches which are cool a scene a few of those on people's sack back actually look in a doorman probably put
one of my back back oh and you know fantolin us all maritime times you just fish thing on our old fwhorever jury you about that very oi'll be looking for you all so he in it done
anyway jack stored up come that's a good way how sikaso ical warfare who just stacking in opiate a where okay basely psycholepsy ological warfare what is that it is an album with
tracks coachers were in your campaign against weakness munsif you if you have gold psychopathologists and he kind he has a thing i'm not going to go and like too much into it but
he has a thing where ye okay why i don't want don't people get what they want and said because in one of the reasons is cold they just don't know what that is and we kind of don't
even if you sound like it better better and what to jussices you can do one push up a day and your technicly better technically so it's like what do you mean better better how
whatever whatever saw the way back to the cyclone you want to on knowles weight you to wake up earlier and be more disciplined in these hectic ways and all this stuff you want to
clean up your diet to clean of your diet avoid jumped with all this stuff and don't feed you to get distracted by short term a peoria with junk food cause don't the whole idea of
jun food is short term path overlong turmoil good diet long ter bath that diet short turmoil anyway if you get tempted by weakness you listen in psychological warfare album or to
attract or whatever so look you waken up early in the morning the port thirty every day that's what i'm doing from now on that one day when you're kind of tired and the arm was
off in your tempted or compelled to press the smooth at or just stay in bed i i'll wake up later aleikoom just sayin some people wake up at noon sometimes play this track called
get up and get after it i guarantee you won't wake up it now you'll wake up a basin time a fine lay yourself by the last hundred percent a successor on that if you fail if you
listen to this and you feel that your little fang to on a nough i annotto say but that's a good one psychologic warper joaille look for it well into it all so you get some
jaconite tea you get that on him as on it'll make you be able to um do amazing feats of strength sure we with no effort barely at all yet i hear rock bag ye the old jockie keep
boom you nailed that easy money one hand ah books like echoed tops they come by travers mills you can get that you can also get a book called extreme eldership that rot with my
brother lay fabens about combat leadership way the warrior kit if you want your kid or a kid that you know to be stronger smarter how fear and therefore because their stronger
smarter and healthier there also more confident if you want to do that for a kid ganlook called way the warrior kid then you can also get the displeased om field manual um a got a
little bump the other day i don't know i think i like in social media put something out i got little but real of a sudden that delivery dates of people had just ordered a got
pushed back and so i don't know i'll know specifically like what that means but i tell you this it means you darter it now if you want to get it when it comes out order it if you
want that first to ditio which is pretty much what you want if you need leadership in your world which you probably do because that's the way things get done is through leadership
and you need help in that department you can contact arles consulting company as long front as me it's late falin j p one dave burge you can email as at infatuaret dot com if you
wants to come speak or work with your company that's what you do and finally and this is ah the master we are close to selling it out right now am the one that's in santiago
september fourteenth and fifteenth leadership tactics techniques and procedures for business and life should get better at everything gereges tered do it now before it falls out
it might even be sold out by the time this podcast comes out but check it out seeing find it um if you can get there extremitie dot com and utilement if you do need to pinion
communicate with us were actually cruising on the interweb twitter in tragam and also if he is polyphoete acheres and i i at jaca willing and to all the military members out there
that are holding the line thank you and to those veterans that stood the watch especially those thou wounded thank you for giving us our freedom and to police lanormand fire
fighters in tsan other first responder thank you for years service and thank you for keeping us protected from man and from nature here at home and every one else out there facing
struggles and facing hard times remember remember the challenges that travis mills faced and still faces and a faces those incredible challenges every minute of every day and he
does that with tenacity and positivity and proofs without question that if you never quit and you never give up and you keep moving forward then nothing can stop you from getting
after it though until next time this is echo and jacko out
