this is jackal podcast number ninety one with a others an me joaille reddening accord evening and we are rolling straight into cueto day so questions from the interweb acharnes go
go okay first question jocko i've just finished about face the book amazing book interested how you modeled your style on half worth though hal was a renegade in always bending
the rules to break to the breaking point but in extreme olisipo talk about for example not pushing back on higher command when it came to recipes have listened to pages too but
was hoping you could go into head a bit more deaths i guess that that's a good question hack he was kind of considered a renegade but but also he was also a total company man the
you got a realize that there's that dicotomy that there's a guy that act love thee or me he loved the army he wanted his uniform would look super squared away he followed all the
rules and regulations that and he supported a leadership all the time when the leadership was right and that's what makes him a good redgate in my opinion and i was very much the
same way i was all about the navy you know i was all about the game as matter of fact tone tonsilitis we got going and to bruise that spread around but of course it came from tony
first which was all navy all the time i was just be joking about you know i think i don't know what originally caused it but like guys or make fun of me because i would wear her
like jungle booths or dan robots out to a liberty with a ground of like old genie cos when yer when you are like that kind of old just grazed in the deems you don't even know any
different there like oh well i'm going out and i need to hear shots cool whereas much albert that's what you end up like and and you are in you you're not like new things it's
good you think it's normal gateway things are the tolaan so i supported the teats and hacks oporto the army of course but this is a thing if the leadership was wrong or there was
something the passed down that was wrong and it was a big wrong what you do is a little i wouldn't be like all men this is crapaudinaire different paris short now because i can
that would happen like some new commanding officer it come in and change some things right and some gaseous do be quiet you know just be quiet you know they're give me new shorts
where the new shorts to all her tens we can't wear baseball hats any more golden where baseballdom gossoon be a tertian in co cares like noon car what i'm wearing on my head you
know like oh you want isis different balk at or find whatever but then if it was a larger issue then or ol obviously there was something that was like actually wrong like criminal
wrong or morally wrong or something he ate then ye be like no we can't do that so the reason that i didn't push back on iraqi troops and working with racarees when we got to
remote was because as i looked at it i realized that it was the right thing to do and yes it was going to be more dangerous and yes i definitely took us out of our comforts one
but as i explained in extreme ownership if we didn't train those people up if we didn't try the arapiles and take them out and get them fighting and get them squared away on the
battlefield then americans would have been doing it for ever so it was the correct call was to do that now i've i've talked about the same same thing when they told us a ratio be
gave it a race you how many races we had to have every one i raced to have and know what the real thing he was seven or or for every one seal we had to have seven iraqi soldiers
that they said that something like that forgot an undertone and i said not doesn't make sense to cause sometimes we only have ten eyes to go out and i'm just no way in sending
only one seal with ten iracoson or not doing it need a corean need to radio men need a machine gunner needle ader like that that's what i need so and when i purbeck because i
didn't push back against ball caps and because i didn't push back against some stupid uniform change ah they will like you well that actually makes sense shock a wheel watch to go
in the field with only one seal so i would clearly push back if it were something that makes you sad thing with likely marshal arch training that they had is doing in the in the
late nineties and early to thousands it was not good and i was told every one pay this is not smart this is not good this training is dumb we need to do other training that's
better ah and and same thing you know things go like here's another like stupid example they wouldn't want to issue a poltoon the the the radio was urging to take on the payment
because they don't want to break them or whatever and said at issue not enough radio for everyone in another everyone doesn't hartop erat the radio and your basically operational
testing the radio's while you're going through your work up so i should at this garbage is you every one radios have that time we operate that that we need to train got to sow in
the training they would an issue that the ready of the other was like a time peared lee low on radio they said won't go to keep intrasatellite and another to make one sma i gotta
go to be by more radio a so you know those things i did push back on and and you are always pushing back on the type of training that was going to happen and who is going to be
how you're going to run the training so um when something would it made sense to push back i pushed back just like hackworth did not hackerston a mass of stale because he
eventually pushedback on the way the war vietnam was being run and had i been smart enough and the war didn't take the shift that a token we didn't move towards countercurrent and
we didn't make those adjustments that the that conical implemented in remote may be may be i doubt it maybe a livinstone not run in this warrigal something different and run up to
eglantine time you don't colleone great acesias he led a had a great plan a great shades i was so hundred percent on board um but if you don't hawkward happen they will not
fighting correctly against the viennese and and they were taking massive gales for i hale that to day adhere back answer he saying will you doing and and the other thing you know
when he's a one heart corbut alian ah they were fighting for months and they had bayadere killed of almost no anything that diero i think i was actually zero enemy and yet they
had taken all kinds of casualties themselves and the shinwaris is wrong this is wrong so i i think that's that's what being a leader is you support pistol you support the command
yes of course you should part the command on it makes sense and as long as it makes sense and normally is goin to make sense in her amminol is going to make sense not like the the
admrs and the generals are saying ay how can we lose this war let's come up with stupid strategy no other doing the best they can so it's not like it's a regular occurrence i mean
like i said when i was working for for corcoran he was a margin he was a brilliant guy that had a great strategy of ramona awesome i'll here to support em and i don't tell you
when i did and this seitiger is that even though i was kind renens more rebellious when i was a kid obviously i i was a ayong when i got feelin's to ben so you know when he would
push in all those things that i in the one god to do this that was me when i was at e for in the seal team you know wood we gotta do that will she just feel it you will have
warier tittuped but as i got older i realized that you need to you you know i come across is a renegade cot uncle a come across as a big rebel that doesn't well immediately when
you go and push back of something everyone just dismisses you oh i jocasta mouth he is he just for the back against everything it is always want to everything his way no you want
them to say oh wow o anastacio osborne is in this ye then this this must be some wrong here because he hasn't pushed back against a fetoie old time so we should listen to him
that's what you want to build that's what i did my best to build and that's how i think it would be comparable to the way hack worthed and the way that i tried to obviously it no
hack worth but i stole as much as i could from him and the word thing is on dayesie say i stole from him but it wasn't like i was sitting there reading a book now undone did hear
i think it was just absorbed and even the name of fasteners like when i did it i wasn't thinking this is what hackers did but it was real obvious if that's where i got it from a
ain't think i'm goin to be in this endeavor turn thin round based to arterward not turn around the warrantable this based on no i was like me an we're not going to be tasking it
bravo you know that sounds lame only be asking bruce or because that sounds awesome you and and and i didn't later you as a tacoma go god that's what that exactly what hap worse i
obviously stole it from him now so appreciated act but that's what i say be a renegade but that should be that should be in the background that being the back your mind in a funny
or man should be hay homilist sport of one's happening he polite the willingness to be are rennygade if you asked her yea if you ave ter and believe me i'm not all kinds of good
see i'll tatward two renegade yes hineline emarine there's a straight up hanrahan and you know that just it the only guys that could get away with that well guise that wore so
ultimately operational squared away neatetht people go at you know he's kind of a maniac but duty's really the really good and really taste we found no boat nicolete make that
happen now as you get more and more senior homme don't play like a hat er certain point danano gotta get you've got a play ligaments you goin to do as you give more serapa tegan
and from like there's subordinate you point if if they looked at me good joceline just playing the game he's just to to be guessed i am yes i am because this way gives me more
ability to control everything that's goin to impact you people that work for me so yes i'm going to play the game to gudea to your welcome so ye jack and it makes sense next
question you get to bed j duetto during your time in iraq if you like please paint me a picture how to imagine a big class from you as an active soldier did you have age mats and
i would it differ from a quartet normal class um the so ye i was brought master me starting with nineteen ninety eight i hunters when i started bringing matters may cottering math
teola's belike a in military transport you built something called a pallet all right pallet and there they like eight feet by eight fretty big and you put stack all kinds of stuff
on them and you know you got your weapons just on whatever you like you got your engines you got your motors you've got your or motors you got your boats your near adiabo you've
got paddles you got all this in all the equipment and every one's personal guaraon there there up dear their body or rise all that these big palace you go in the plenitude eight
palates eight of the giant palate and so on some of those palates there would be mate suwhee you know you're talking about weapons and titian so and in that etsaou too well
quivers in charge were to antiaesthetic made it real easy yes and an even if it wasn't me i mean everybody you know if he here bringing something to help everyone get better you
know people are itasca so is it late actual process nor on an you genitoris bring all kinds of crazy things man i remember gustenberg surfboard simin they packed their surf boards
on pallets they do not you wait and squat racks and anything that you want with you if you're moosic month appointment to remote location there you are going to purohitas got rack
and punch of em prelates and if that remotion has waves your packing so for it has if it has you know rock climbing you're goin to pack rock climbing gear yet you that's as i'm
telling this on one of the things that it's really hard to this you will teamster hard dibdale that i think we had inganess you'll seems to have that better than most people
otitis this autonomy to kunama things happen and do kinnecot nearer not saying no no one ever gits do that but you know i i i don't think a regular army unit or regular rinconete
would be putting you know seven surf boards on their part slantwise limit the like so like one let's say me i were going in a get a la v can i get a controversies like a extreme
yea ye yes it just to it also depends on where to poling what you and what the mission is cause you my first time to iraq weed in have much of any tostoff obviously right we do
had our opor basically and but the second time the second time i went to rack we brought more but actually the well to square this pretty awesome there's a there's a nine that is
a great marine that was with us and he ran he manned the radios and he was just a distant awesome guy and he was he was a marine but he was there was marinaro the river and so he
was supposed to keep caught not and he got a sign to us any was also guy and he knew how to well he was from a farm up in montanari so he knew how to well to and he had the gear
that we danavas and so arsdales much saves with thee they go they were able to like just come up with stuff they make anything happen but by my head see he was just could see
that's sis bill things and they also acquire things leans come that builder and it is on combat engineer betancour tion betan that's what is so solid for short but it's the
seethes in and so he they they built things and they all so very good at a quiring thing to do i exist show up that you are at your base in my guys were often acquiring things and
we don't have a squat rack which is quite crazy to me to be at no squadron right wide why don't get a square so and three the this this marine welled a squat race now here's the
interesting part the squall rack he was he was tall he was like maybe six four six five maybe not that all peasantries letter so on this squat rack there was others the just able
it and to to put the bar on him while this didn't have a justful things just had two looks and no as one hook at his height or one said a hook at his eight and one said hooks of
my eye ever new enfired out a bureau now but ah but yes sir yes you could bring you could bring that if you want to and so so yes we brought mass i brought mats all that
deployment and both acteth might upon the serapeum and then at the glass like old generally your train with people that don't know anything and i would to trade with them in the
work up you know to their starting to learn and there like you know low level white belerma level white alterin high love wipe out seething and had one blue bell on the easier one
of my deployments and the good thing is their team guys their athletic their strong bearing good shape they want to learn so they learn fast their tough the leggettstown enough
that ees it to get good roll ye any want the more you teach them the better the rolls get talking about gounod he never tried never travelled with a gee for the military don't
think and sweat what i started wearing almost all time was canny pants and a te shirt and what's cool as i did that when i soonest red to do to a trailer other seals that were in
came panton and a t shirt because it didn't make sense to wear like a came to ye and so what's cool is without even knowing it when no one was training no gee i was actually
training no gee because i did was a train i go or teacher on a enwreath but betty mysel yet that's what we were came pants and a t shirt would we occasionally put on a hopper
ocasionally but but not not very often ah you the other thing you got to watch out for with with my for oration in the eleans there's gisol go nuts like that you want a tapuyo get
major e goes and so gascoin go saco ah sometimes when i when i pit per certain people against each other so nishadha to basically officiate slash busaos retreat no one actually
got killed ah because they'd be trying to kill each other and no one having up yolande can't you know you're about to your arms about to get broken stop it she had to do some of
that ah and i'm i'm i am a bit of an instigator yet i don't want it i rested now do it on the mat to day you know i mean if there's two guys that are going hard against each other
but maybe they're not going super hard yeating hard release me then i know you intenso i would ask a late matches between guy as well and and then you know i i just roll every one
saw yet with a will to class the like technos just like a rangatira and jesus go over some stuff and then well then that's it pretty simple good times yet i found that if you can
do little jules with yourself if you go i fear high level go and you're going with the white dog specially if their athletic what you do is you you know how like when you roll
with a guy whose may be won levellier take from you you um or let's say there's one of a lower you'll kind of slowly put yourself into better or worse situated right in young all
out and nothing like ye but this kind of cat contrite i too if you go with like a a like a beginner beginner but there athletic what you do is you try to you think of a finish to
armanase yet as fastened possibly can of so if you're like okay i'm on starin about or you no force how many no well depends only maerentes yes but you're in the horse marmoreus
amities with no lack rather force initation somewhat yea a oyster up sure yeah exactly that's what that's really the drill is the you got a set it up giving what he does and he
could be retreating oldtime sure it's consultation geraestus that is how suits but oh that's the duelling your head rather than you know you let a annuity of method to roll with a
white felt his lips to go light less what he does let him give and get a good position on you and then i'll work out what a but no don't do that would be to go gay i'm a treat
this person like a person that i have to in realize so do with and you chowhare too actually that is a good game to play and then you get real good at that i might mooing from one
of engines also i don't play that game very often i i don't know what there's something that snaps i had sometimes room my okay i'm going to just smash this person but you know
sometimes i'll be watching the clock and we nursery seconds left a bit imrie some met this dude of the next forty seven or we must when a vote against some one that's good you
know what i mean i that's i honestly i do that with you sometimes worry i confide chilling and i'm all so on my way though day thirty seconds left and i have to go superordination
give myself in the sun as i ateleuteton ye me than that i agreed i don't do that in training comin what i hardly my lazy instinct is i always go just enough better than the person
going against tear to macniven ually finish a fee in that's good because you give the other guy good training yet and tough kind of the point i wish not to you want if you go in
regular oecus and your like you know upper belt mean like purple brown black belt and you go against the white belly you get pared up in a way but i'm not saying nearly to do that
all a time because it's kind o you kind o it's a relationship you have with your training partners so if i'm like okay every white belt i go again or or any beginner undergoes a
one it's like bret what ye doing now the god who good short an act in that's why for what you're saying for blue belts to do that is not good to be of so that it alternately
ayakou that radiolike a dungeon belt back yet that's going to be that's goin to be like okay i'm on a test i my efficiency in making this after quickly yet who fell against a
athletic white belt seen to be is going to be world war save a yet that's where i'd just a hinderer that are waiting to happen yet poblana is knocking agen it endured knocking it
generally in jerome one from being in baptisin bought boot wiped out a bisgood snares yea and in so brilliant in doing that is like an a scenario like your situation where you
don't have any one to train with except for beginning at are all at lettice and angry ziscky well what do i do you know you know it scolopendrium from deployment better a gitten
when i left for sure o that happened on every point when i came home i was better at johan when i left but not only better than i was but i was in keeping with the standards of
the guise it was train with so you don't iron with them before i leave and i i come back and i am now doing better than i was against being before i left here he's been here
training the whole time so that that says to me that is an effective way to train you know you just be just and natata's why there's real nose to have people ask you to what i do
i live for hours away from the closest go an get some friends put some mats on the ground watch you to be and start training with each other in an occasionally when you get the
chance go somewhere to a school once a month once every two weeks so you can learn ye yeh an i think in your situation is is kind of a nut eaten but kind of a specific types
tuition where you have all the fundamentals essentially gown therese you know like habitual stuff stuff that you you just automatically do with certain techniques which is the the
correct technique you know so you get i think that you'll benefit more in that way where you can train with beginners but incantation on tetawani was a blue belt myself yet i
think he got babette when i would be on the ployment yet when i was a purple about when i was a brown belch yet still still it's just like a little disaster um version of that
idea where if you're beginner and you're like okay i've never taken to go to him to start on you to but whatever i don't think you can benefit fellow situation oh no you can
taminent as much you can't yet you knew definitely not as much but you can benefit me i definitely benefit do you definitely benefit yes it's better it's a thousand times better
than not doing any thing or not turned e a and if you got one person to has that gift of menial to like understand what's happening may be got a wrestler in their broaches much
love as some of the did you do pay that's goin t help you so much but he if you know the start looking at it and say okay what's happening in this what's happening like their okay
try that or mock on men you get some those good you two videos that really break things down well dem cameron i think as you can because i didn't have to lean that way luckily
yeuck' leave that the train with the best gutterward so you know you know thither or an he actually were ye tom actually had your grace whose you know rowe not even argue leader
he is a doggrel time yea ever he and he is actually telling me is like i don't have like a team of world plaskett with he's a a sometimes i train with rowlestone cause he's not
there england hesnaes so he has like he's like i only train to my students an who who are good and they give us some training but they're not out on have world class trot partners
like my opponent to kind of fete and the eyes venaissin yeh so man to kinetic their own but all these things ye kin be beneficially even even if they don't necessarily seem like
it yes i all you know what i think actually this is leading to it like you get what you make out of yeesty i ask his people that you have seen there on the same thing that came
from some rand and camp and their training hard and they go and win the the conomo reche didn't come from he didn't come from gregory yankele didn't come from american top team he
came from a gray know their score with with cabin of an obviously done something right but same thing he didn't have the the highest level guys to train against he trained a not
saying sagging off the the training partners but it's not it was a known camp when he came her out rathees he's a guy like that ah macalley he's out in the way right easterner but
he's coming out here waiting the u v s champion at based on you know his training farther is so i think guys that that actually understand what they need to do they do they get it
done you don't make any excuses that many of the uses they you know after the and then the day it right she ate next west with life decisions is it better to be decisive and take
actions to move forward even if sometimes those decisions are wrong as opposed to being paralyzed by indecision and fear thus getting manoeuvred on by life i assist because i
struggle with life decisions and have trouble committing to one path duty eclectic interests after listening to your paces on thinking it's better to be aggressive and manoeuvre
on the battle field of life as long as i'm prepared to adopt rather than sitting around and letting circumstances dictate my actions well it sounds like a kind of answer to one
question territio yes it is better to be aggressive it's better to be decisive this does not mean burning bridges and i think we talked about this before it doesn't mean that you
just you just say i'm quitting my job right now because i'm going to do start a new life as a whatever your new job is to be orinocometer a business selling withits aims going to
go all in cause i'm committed sir will you you know how i take process with it and where you know so there's a lot of issues that you know there is a way though too to matogee
risk on your decisions and actually at the ah at the camp we were in an up a man there's a lot of guys that were you know listen opatas and one of them really good really good guy
ah he was taking me about his business and the business is a mangonel details but he's basically saying look i got this business it's going well i wanted to do better and i'm kind
of waging this decision between bringing on weaselly six people to really help expand and grow and all that stuff i said but if i do that and we have a couple of rough you know if
we had some bad luck i might be upside out and and not be able to handle it and and what i really am scared of his i thation just me but it's not as my family i then wife an kids
and now i'm hedging the the the comfort and safety of my family so i don't know what to do and i said o k well do you have to go all in right pa have to turn around to morrow
could you don't want we're going all in a ohier these six people or an expand and orfevery thing goes right we'll do really well you don't have to do that you don't have to put
that much on the table instead i said i said well how many people do you actually really need right now and he said probably one or two was like okay why don't you bring on oneand
and start to see where that goes and be prepared to look for another person to bring on too and then as those two people work out in your starting to fill their labor every day in
their head amor to do because your expanding the kobrin on three and and guess what is if you hit a heck up and things start going sidewise for a wonder a reason that's got you
don't have those additional for people of three people on board that your paying pay roll to every month which is known what kills businesses or one of the common things that
kills business is so it's the same asoetas steps a good example right and he was the fathoms of en he look at me sentially amenothes and so he's probably back at his job right now
running his business and probably hire a person to start expanding not hiring six people and put in all the chips on the table to where it's a cool gamble say the percentage of
waving winning as seventy per cent you like tamandu it there's a thirty percent chantelouve and lose an now your varanians house and no food is last not what we want to do so why
not just put some o your chips on the table he and you can still wait an make a little bit you still he still improve your position so we got to do that we live too like i said
you don't quit your job to start building wedges when you don't know what you're doing you got a bit why not just built the witchita your spare time yet he went up searing
hushings on the internet seeing how they sell start getting a little income from them let them grow and in finding when you feel like the balance start to tip maybe they'll be a
last minute jump will you be like okay now i'm going to go for it but what your committing to hit something solid something tangible and something that's making money right were
not jumping in and committing to something that's an unknown were to commit some to something that's known and and i think it's important to know that that right there is not a
lack of commitment and this is er these like you know people on the interwebbed be like the one you have made yesindeed or say that's why you you want to do it you got commit with
everything you've got what and so what people think is okay well i'm going to quit my job come and go for the committal asaeus this guy here told me if i committed i be successful
sactly not true you can be a thousand per cent committed something you you could still fail itobad news for you that's the reality you that's the reality of the thing the people
that black berry warn't committed to their game you are an you know what happened bovary m it's it's a they were in it but big day made some mad decision to guess what now
blackberries not really in the game any more will he if he the change came so out unrecent sure but people think that that because you didn't it your job and put go all in a put
all your chips on the table that you're not committed and i actually don't agree with that and i'll i'll get hers mixable if i okay i think that commitment is actually harder to
do when it's a long term commitment that you're going to play no what i'm goin anesty job but i'm on work three hours a day on this other thing and i'd be manufactured make him my
withers three hours a day when i got home at ten o'clock at night i'm goin till one o'clock in morning making my widgets that's commitment it's actually smart commitment it
actually in some ways takes more commitment to do that than it does just a queer your job and sam on lincoln you hold in your balancing all these different in your carry your
shouldering more of a burden so that actually takes more commitment the problem is that people the day get weak and after the fourth night of making wages at ten o'clock at night
the giantess haven't a ha have a job yet and so that's weak i you know an example be what if you could get in excellent physical condition in three hours but it was just like the
hardest three hours that you could imagine think about that any ainybody were transform from whatever crap condition you're in right now into a specimen and is going to take three
hours of just hell how many more people would be an amazing condition on an now i think a ton more because committing for three hours to something even it was going to be super
bad people would be able to do it what takes me more commitment and the reason every one's not walking around like a perfect specimen is because it doesn't take three hours it
doesn't take three weeks it doesn't take three months it takes a daily grind that goes on for years that you have to hold the line in on the way you eat all the way you exercise
on your life and that takes wheel commitment yes so it isn't a lack commitment it's planning it is a lack commitment is made gating risk and don't confuse again i i think that the
person that commits to something and still maintains this other income stream for example that person is at least as committed if not more committed than the person does know what
scrowging all in over her i'm forgetting about you greeting my job an that's not a smart move and it takes more that's actually easier willets my point it's easier in many ways to
go you know what i'm citandum quitting my nine to five i'm sick of that cubical i'm sick of that construction i i'm just going all in over here that isn't easier move that takes
less commitment i say i'm going to shoulder the burden of working fifteen eighteen twenty hours a day for the next two years until i can get this thing stood up enough to do her a
can execute it yes the unlike were completing the commitment you know it's like that he almost people wanted when i when i do be shell of commitment by quitting there but if more
is a show of commitment of shivaite are you not kind o think i and then so well at him with these big shows of commitment becomes just an immense amount of stupidity you know the
fiendmen while you can either come in or don't commit her you know yes sure if you don't clear your job and you make with it and you don't commit sure it's like a right you got
you can facilitate your non commitment to any editorial job your nine to five job is in the neighbor to you not committing yet fully yes but by no means is that you know now for
ye ye and a important to know that don't confuse and this is another miserable make mistakes on either as i the spectrum the other one is don't confuse planning and mediating risk
with not taking as you know that can happen to you have to make things happen every single day that's what you have to do if you don't take action if you don't move which is what
this guy's asking about then ye your paralyzing your never gone anywhere but all you do is chip away at that thing you got to make a little bit of movement every day if you want
to write a book in this is something i'm familiar with tales i'm writing books and right another book right now ally and you know what i got to do i got a ship away that thing
every day every day yet every day there is a commettono to day where five minutes maybe an hour that's what it takes and guess what if i can't get that hour for whatever reason
that onange to twenty minutes i many get thirty mats i'm going to get something get in there do work not on any close to my golden i was yeah that's the way it is ye men and i
think you got to see that life didn't you yes that no honour it was my honor that's ah but that's where happens where else is going to happen right yeah we're flying back for me
rosy know aches cruising good ye think i felt sleep componitur gottine up but i was i was hamish as doing what i have to do umbecast i don't do it that i wouldn't that on a
abettor that was how is four hours i had right there in flight technically five yeah couldn't get my computer ollers little bit o ye alecto so whatever aleatory kennette tis pekin
your shoulder like reading a insured now there and then they see of what was it that i saw the name kinneill sit in there all noonan's writing her a otahytee man composed ye think
that all that sounds like an obvious you know when you're saying it like you kay eareye got it or edoor at least the part where it's like it's a daily thing like you've got a
letter to have to progress you like you got to take that step you know so it am sound obvious but men holy times and none like my friends and you know whatever oh you go on not in
on life or whatever and you see people complaining about you know it is stuff never happens for me you know a female you know the mill me yes stuff ever happens to you patrigh and
stuffing a rap as for you father right ye that is life it happened for you and if you got to go and make it out i explained to my kids you want to make money you have to take that
money from someone else you have to take it from them the people are just going to walk up an give you money you right that doesn't happen does never happen to me my life known as
ever walked up and given me money an me neither you got a cake that mother they got to give it to you then you got to make them you go take it from him yes they want that money
too so what are you going to give them that's going to make allow you to take it from her that that so ye guess what nothing nothing happens for you that's right nothing does
happen for you you have to make it happen ye that's a deal agressive mine said that you are going to make things happen not going to sit around away for things happenin gonna
happen ye he's not going to have oh well guess what i read a story about this such and such a person in the just walked into this you know agent sea and they thought they looked
to get a really good job and now their famous okay that's great face shall i for that per cent if chance of amyot happening i actually is look at that and i think to my bechance
to anything like that happen to me or zero nothing good is going to happen to me like that tom's going to get a good deal like that's not happenings zero so if if you're going to
get it you are going to have to make an appen next quest you know he that should be the red lirette then i basically for the for some one whose like none you know when i might
connage my big break or four of you know nothing happens for me kind o think not should be the red syreens like ye ye asked him i rayner you talking about the fact that you are
not that things are coming to you yeh yeh yeh that should be a real big red flag nothing is going to come to you not half an if i not happening you got to go and make things
happen and once you have that attitude i'll say what if the game changer yes it's a game changer once you realize that that book that so good that's in your head is not going to
write itself ye won't you realise that wait that you have this plan for i isn't got a bill itself then you'll realize like okay i'm going aft to make these things happen and even
then guess what you can make a wig at the north to buy and you can write a book that no one to know no one to read and if you're not okay with that which is another thing that
happens peoples the will you know no one will like it okay well that's you think well on donari it unless you want to write a for yourself you then ride it for yourself and
colepeper ou les stoked be appy yet it with cineselli say above book or example he this can reminds you of war ehow let's say it in a memoria oh i'm a i'm a pretty good writer in
fact i even wrote a book before whatever and then my friend on inserpit whatever some one my neighbor whatever they write a book and they they released it and then they ride
another one an mantlets says not even a really that good but it's out there there like look my new book and you know they got people surprise he wrote a book and i meanwhile like
kind of sorry grapes the little bit on like simonette right and then then that person mean why it right any moniaive here or you were wantin ye o back in the day long time is ill
you know koowut you know i'm in i'm saying i'm in that arena you know and i'm kind in my mind having on the ianito had all them that never even wrote a book in the first play at
monument and of better writer alma better film guy i am a better rider amalafrida one offer they all kinds of people doing that one kind of people dead that will just be saying i
i i i was a better whatever fighter judicatae a carpenter a whatever you name it meanwhile taking no aragon soft wearing giner i could have done that a wide didn't you get exactly
right i'll say you i cause you weren't committed yepantchine that will aloot is it night light that letendre oriathon for in the midday whatever now it how you say like your he
not doing these enormous shows of commitment that ever you commit to you not in your committed it's gonna show itself i your asino know all i was fegain back to the guy whose like
hating onitis neighbor doing quotum cower like andato john a not that good hannonet you know what this is a betise times you'd meet a guy that was say on going to seal training
and and the kind of be brag about it and you could see in their eyes that that right there was good enough for them to ealing to see it he'll team training yet you no known a
conseille training but not the kind of person cause they just want to thread i'd hear god you you know guissant yo goin to see training the guys that generally have a better
chance or giotto know you say oh we do in the navy and this all you know i am you know just got done with a school and i'm starting a hope in the go to sell training you know the
the after pride out of them a lacustrine guy that already bragging no basically indirectly bragging because he's implying that he's going to make it was guy good have a little bit
more welfavouredly men not desiring don't be confident you but that's what i want to saying as some people that like on going for it there happy with just saying i'm committed a
great my job in the woman that happy to let let him who know that if but what they're not happy to do is grind that's what they're not happy to do and that's where that's where
you that's where you make your money right or were you make your good ower you become successful yet there is a wotinel's so domat but allusion and they are talking about em like
come let people have gold i want to be a singer or whatever on to be a seaman a p a s e b would you can form up in all seas to day and you can be game become the sea exactly right
so that they had a right to set more the point or there like okay he you want to reveal because you see all this corpse on or wherever above being a seal but really what your
pursuing isn't necessarily being the sides but what year pursuing where you're going to end up and where you are going to find successes so if you're presuming that day a day of
going a see here like go i said this before and it's it's a on the surface its name but it's it's actually really accurate like if you want to be a gang tergou have to do gangster
stuff every day it's not just like poonish your guns it's like you got a kind o you got to put in that work kind a thing you know it all if you are going to like you can't just be
you aloan start a poast and just in in you know put out a book and that's it and start collecting money it's not like that layout now however old you are in any nears here's other
steps in volaterrae so at latinised to joke about ah you know cause when we started ashalorn obviously riches mean him and we'd see you some other guy up there to be i see all
something and and we tressaillit as i see you and you look at her company in the company has them only one first north three people it brillante the on the sea on the sea of
jacobuses you would me there's no at your going on here he works cuculin to arouse an now ye that ye got a focus on the right thing said as he posted her own then she ark next
wish jockei coach high school football which shall i do with the star athlete who segregate himself and won't participate in hard drills or won't partouted in drills the now this
one i actually thankfully remembered that i set i would do this but because when i this this is a tortenson o and i responded to this towerist in one word so you know he has a i
got this guy star athlete won't participate drills wasioto i responded to one word bench thought that valise so of course you know the people sort they well you know the end and
i'll let ye i know were on twilight ere i'm wetter ah there's more to it than what's happening i just answered seven hundred and ninety eight questions that it was some hundred
ninety nine so am not i to go to follett then as people were kind of chiming in ithaka i'll all answer this on the pocasse can go into it a little bit more because yes your coach
your leader and obviously i talk about this all the time leshi is a new one thing it takes balance it takes maneuvering it takes chess playing it takes mental jeitteles thinks
right so the obvious answer of just like bench's my meat had answer and fundamentally we'll get to it but in fondamental that may be the result but let's dive into little behueet
what is the what is background what does attitude where is he coming from what's his family like life or what his family life like what is what's his past performance what his
record what year is he in scores all kinds of things we need to know right so now once we've sort of figured out what he had now that any one of those things any one those very
able is going to is going to change our course of action a little bit because being a leader doesn't mean you get to follow cooky cutter result sort of cook cook conversation to
think right you're dealing with human beings and everything when you a being as different and every single human being has a little crazy as one that you cannot purtect so where
do you want to kid guess what a sixteen year old boy that kit is even more unpredictable in even more crazy to most bicause he's got past asrafil to his sister he's chasing girls
he he's just going crazy he's not secure in himself yet he's got tite on his face henry's got you on going on he got issues and to this kid's crazy and were trying to deal with he
now most kids can get gillagan through that there still participated the team the cipos one of the first things i always say this you got somebody that's not stepping up in the
leadership position or they're not wonder you put him in charge of it you know you say hey echo i want what you run the drill i think the way of one watching for formirte field by
a given really lead this tree while i want you leave this joyselle's guys what's up right ohayo don't a man like i don't really fire up face on your lethal there is some so that
might take his attitude and now instead of me saying hey and go you got to do this draw like every one else i already know that you don't want to do that same elevating you a
little bit of eagle little push little massage and maybe you feel good about that now i say hey you know you can run this to fashion anyone else i want you to lead it i want you
show how to do it on one you make our tin better boon all so you're goin to loaf irus that's that's the one solution type right i'm scandal bronson take another soon type is is
and in this i release really is when you're talking to someone that you want to improve their performance at you don't go to them and and say hey ah ah you need to get better
cause you're just right now you're letting a whole team down red and you're just you think yours all good you think you're so good that you do need to coach gundarua with the team
you need to run till with team now you're out is used what are you talking about so instead he say that i i'll gin i'm going to eager you up a little bit be said he man i'm a
doctor you i got to talk to you because i see so much potential with you with your game i see your athletic ability and i see the way that the other guides on the team look at you
you might not sense it they look up to you your leader whether you want to be a leader not and the potential that you have an is as an athlete is not going to come the fruition
unless you at least get some of your potential as a leader in light so the reason i want you to run these drills isn't to make you better i ready now you're good are now you're
good at the jules the reason wants you on these doeskins you to be even better i wish you reached potential and by the way you help it on these drills is going to make the team
that and the bed of the team does the better you're goin to do the more scouts were going to hear looking at you so there's that and obviously in an explained to him why the
drives are important for him and for the team and for a m and the team together for the all every one to reach a potentate were those are good cue in i guess of over all broadly
when i be doing this whole time is talking to the person talking the individual trying to figure out what his reasons were for not wondership the dress and then countering those
reasons with logical answers and yandher's wide important in explaining it to him and then eventually you're going to get to a point or my coaching my explaining my maneuvering my
mental jugend of its work and he so tell me all not rode to dries out of need to cool bangtext casseneuil you play volpatte yet and i am playful yet no that's exactly right i
would i would think and i'm trying to put myself in the mind set back well it's a nice school oh i remember going into my senior so you have we had so kind of summer training
through rules like high school to summer train was non uno thothe was for fall alkamenes like a camp situation but not summer training which was like after spring and stuff in it
and what they call it they call it technique sessions and all it was as like you know i played a tin ice schools kind of like a slap back which is a hybrid running back on why
does he retire and um so the technique sessions were just cut a passing drills and you know just hand staff and maybe even some foot work but if the it was kind of fun it was just
you know the quarter back as there in the receivers in the rang back one catch bastes run routs and stuff and you know for like that afore i minutes are and am so i remember going
into my senior year and they're talking about yet take me cessions this year whatever whatever and remember if just talking a j my brother and i was like yet taking me sessions
but it's a kind where you don't go you don't get in big trouble or nothing it's just strongly encouraged in lancinante not going to those kind of cause i was real i done you
recantation well as a genin i knew that now a senior i really going to do well whatever whatever that's that was my lithog rani don't need to go to the source like an not going
into those with this curatone that lengthen there that's where people were training training get better me i'm already done kind of thing you know and joses oh yeah like a super
sarcastic like almost offended youth is like all youse you don't need that hum and he is then they need a geas you're jes so much better than everyone or actually i think a boat
of the reinitiation hate me really hard up dengate drank a sunsheen if seven if like even if i freely believe which it is dumb to believe that i won't benefit from that training
even if it's like i'm just like i am i'm i'm better than you my whole team by the way derothor we all work together to win this stuff oh you guys i'm better than all your yeah
that's that's the feeling and hid my real heart as exanimis any of them be eoman and committed to the sill there was that oh so in that in that mine set in going into this
probably what it is it might be just that and a make sense like were in your mind if you don't get it brought to your attention like that's really what it is only to do these will
them scorn touched on everything will give why am i doing these rills that all these non touched down scaring people are doing you know i but put me in what is time to score touch
that kind of an attitude you know that's probably what it is or making tackles or whatever the position is now oh so just like a you said make him kind in charge of it nothing
disguise i ionizing on oh jim you know take these guys and show how done kind of thing in practice because it practise is his yevguenia fucarandono came of hissed hey akoae you
hear you miss your braces are you like you know and he's a camin i need you to set the example and really shall be gosawis done and you're not i shown up ye up even and matatiele
back in those days if if you would a left out that like you didn't show up part leave that part out that would have compelled me way more like if you're like you will mean your
your has the unior killeenan now it's about to be your seenorcetas holt's done i legousin that the anything and bemolle big time she take charge and am paperer football which is
you know younger guys in i played for the color ramsauer still are by the way oh and so my coach is neensuh scovel and he had this kind of the appeal a policy pennonings where
when you do jumping jacks on you do oh you do drills a gum they come grass drills mister like you do the stuff you really do this thing and while you do this in practice and even
before the game when you were up you yellah you can that's it you yelled just yell and getting up operition and at work men thorerbred and am so what i would do is i try to be the
like yell as loud as i fought i can to be a louise during the entire whatever you're doing your sealing the entire time to your antitheton not if you stand in law and up in line
god and then the note so that coach stands in front of three guys three lines in the guys in the further doing the drill so you get the h he holds the ball and you ah you just
basically shall your feet in hegoes like that thing you turn an you come back and goes this way turn and then he goes down then you basically straw you don't won't terbacky know
and then he got a key like that and then the three guys run out the next guy drowsie saying so and when you're running you got a yell too so i i that lanyard cardio vascular work
yes to be yelling cry can't be on his much what it does is get you in the habit of just going a hard harsh every play do you know and when you're done you don't have to yell your
cruising your estin get her at and when one is go time is go time and had it uliassutai than it was it really worked and um so he way way and i would yell as i in the coach would
do this to a lot of kids when you deal super lad you i could just see here that a yelling above everybody hued give that guy attention at rennickite oceasion now the next guy
you've got to try to out yell that gun go hardacre so it's that same idea you know you give that guy props for working hard or showing everybody how the one kind of thing in this
like an hookee that shot up and it one's going to want in fact jeff did me like that this week in training so i go in and dislike after train is like everybody you know over over
a he uh you know you do some push up to hellenedom push up for whatever and im he like okay do they try to draw you know when you're yoroyoro back your rock back o do trade you're
of back again gilead so to all levels are in the beginning as well and some doing it it goes all everybody in the mill of hell stop watch on afloat and i'm like if i didn't see
what was going on here i feel really impowered to ike shooton an you know so he successfully pulled that office for a feeling in my head to a crown i don't said no citoyen were
you doing him yet doing it with everybody any paul classon said watch how he does it you know so i can sit exactly in contact your game a little bit ah you don't tell it like a
scene should himthought good man that works then like an the point there is even if you you know that that's what they're doing to you excellent you were the type of coach that
had already had this happen before and like you just benched guy he in the end the coach had the reputation that you don't play around this or that happen in the first place we
really would i go very tattsey may have to set the example at some point yet the only drawback of that potentially is um you could cause in high school a lot of the times like you
can have one or two guys on the teams sometimes even one on the team that all but dictates all come in the game where if this guy's plain the yellowed you'll probably win if he's
not you probably is in you you had those anemonies um so if you run that risk where amines you were if you looking at a bigger picture yell i guess this is a bad example if the
guy if you if you as a coach run things in a certain way it will you hawe don't allow any slack ye then the probability of this occurring is going to be less yet it can be done
for her will like you know it's it's a funny story late tell sometimes as we were doing deserting and long story short there's a opportunity to have guys take a break and go to
town have some beer and get a good meal before the field training exercise i start and that's normal whatever one does but we didn't do that we in takara didn't go get food didn't
go get bears and nothing we just got after it or and i didn't really think what other but lay was like eff course we want to go but none who know antias you ye causes i get no
slack while not obviously where i wouderai and get somewhere out her you know go in to town and drink a peer no and it's kind of funny looking back but i think that that you can
establish yourself as a type of leader that just knock in a low like willy talked about you don wan to do the drop o but it starts up a little things like who knows what this this
kid you know maybe he didn't want to put on his practice jesting one to her as you know what i mean to say it little things little things build up and eventually he see me just
like a normal kit to like a five year old that forces the ample everything i owe panathenaea anywhere that i walk in igarape like to push the ellopia a life an ye no siringo yes
but you can go too far with no slack of course yes and you now now averages you as go yet cause you just don't understand you don't let in in your jerk you've you've gone too far
on direction ary phroneonton balance diademed ship gets up he sure lewes and duck have you ever had a person you couldn't get through to some lady couldn't manipulate then what
what ye do when ye can't get through well yeah of course am i had people that i could not get through to and generally speaking these people are like level twelve arrogance that
they are giant eagle that's what causes this there was cut a few seal leaders that i dealt with i shouldn't say quite a few there was several seal leaders that i dealt with that
were like that and of several business leaders of that i have dealt with that i wrote were like that in poncaser of five i read that counting letter corrective measures to a guy
that was really arrogant and despite that letter he did not change and he got fired so what do you do when you got some one but you can't get through to you you fire them that's
what if the if and he such got a d he is what what makes that tricky is that some people and this made this village people freak out there's some people that they're such good
performers that even nother slightly naked eve on may be their team participation but their so good that that offsets their negativity right and that happens apostates with
sainteville on palisade ple are are in order to be in a salting t be company got to be aggressive you got to be some one arrogant right you got to believe in yourself and so some
self people take that to the extreme where there is ionopolis en of what you tell me the new procedures are screw that on the one that's doing the big dollars over here how would
you for my procedures boy right so so that atentive then what you got to do he got a look does is this it proconsolo that can create problems within the team and you have to
balance those things it is this guy a is the negative is creating offset by the awesome procity it is to it and from the more if the guys that good hey maybe we should be modeling
some things after them i am no problem with that if you're the best performer cool all i want i imitate you i want to get my people to take you so that happens at the other place
where you might see it a similar situation is a leader that does really good with their relationships down the china command for instance but really has badelon's up the chinaman
so again you go ask yourself okay if i fire this leader how many of these people that he has great relationships are not relieve in what kind of detrimentum the that can also
happen with some one that's dozen that treat their people like crap but up to chancton thinks his great and any getting the mission done by the way right he has slave driver and
he is creating total animosity between him and his team but his accomplishing the mission so now what he do there's resk everyone could get there is recusare now you don't
composition any more theseus why leadership is hard and this is why you have to balance everything you have to balance those things but talked about it a bunch of times if you get
someone you coach him you meant turyo do everything you can give flank em you do get o mental judicatum you try and get them squared away and eventually if you can you wag against
you know how it's goin affect the situation and then in many cases you got to let em up and we find you know we fired five saw plenty of seals the fired from leadership
possessions um and and same thing with the obviously work with consulting businesses we see all kinds of people getting fired because there even not capable doghood there too
arrogant and he don't recognize things are going sideways and they're just thinking that do everything perfect no that's not goin work out well for you yet what i am is late it
some one asked him oh in a wind you know when that line where it's like when it's some the higher somewhat than he was like in a nut shell there's a elatto it but in a not show
which petsoe said it's you know you're at that point where you were you fire some one wenamon you don't feel bad about it right it so if they get you do you trideri everything and
and there's also people not are some validity to this that say the first time you think you should fire some one to otarie other end of the spectrum right and what that means is
when you're lookin some one in your going mancion save him i can help em that's the kind of advice you give to some one that's that's a that's got a maternal instinct right that
you be tomenine this guy's just a good guy and everyone might see his great and ever was going to do great an you can't tell that person what lay and i normally tell people which
is when you feel good about it astir because that person will never feel good about fire anybody just about as sanguiki no he's goin to make any noise going to come around i you
know i and then they bent start playing the the extreme eldership game just you know if i would have given echoed better direction you old man to do this is to i fault i've given
echo seventeen when it orations of this and he still didn't complete a correctly he's fired that's a way at worrit there yes the balance so that spectre of of you know being
within the confines of being justified firing somebody a certain type of person you got a say when you don't feel bad about it right bright that's like a fire heavy type due right
but there's also somewhat to the reason you shouldn't feel bad about it is because i've done everything i can do to help you i which takes work it takes effort it takes tact it
takes hard conversations because it's hard for me to go and say echantillon at your fido's lately and there they're not really what we're looking for fright a onest that you an
uncomfortable rankin of light you are we will only get along so sound like a cold that liberty was good man dead good but not tell you the cure then over time harvest looking good
enough an event they say you know what they were not known by in our videos any more and we haven't got in new contracts so guess what i'm going to have to let you go you like
what i was goutaut you said all the needed no your landing me maybe need to be to become a better salesperson yea whereas if i had the hard conversation early and said haco you
know i know you're creative and i appreciate that but we also need to get the mesticos for a clinton obviously fabricating a business where were making healfdene a in which i know
we don't really do a lot of any more occasionally you do hooihut yes you got you got to um they have the heart conversations relier a one type of person that doesn't like to have
the hard conversations once again i never feel good about it because i never i never gave you any advice so it always feels bad for me to fire some one but if you're following
good leadership packed em then absolutely true when you get to a point we've got a fire somebody you won't feel bad about it cause you know you've done everything you can you know
you've coach the mention them and you know that if you keep them on board your negatively impacting your team which is bad yes and then go down to the other side of the spectrum
still within the confines of being justified in firing somebody but then but on the other side of spectroanalysis that whitefoot maternal instinct time of ternate person who can
lie they just super hard on themselves may be or there you know like i i even if you did do everything you can you still like i got it on me you know it's my pal not as i feel
like i let him down as a leader ye have them seventeen counselling chips ye you'll pay don't belong here i can't do their job stop yet meanwhile they're going home laughter yea
yea you get that kind of person also kind like i say you got a balance a you got to be like okracoke what kind of person and i you know or what kind of person is is so the person
panting and if they're those maternal instinct jewel for libenter with putting in a person then what was it the first time you feel like you should fire me should fire for you you
hang out on that head said it you got a eternitas how do you regain respect from your employees after you have come across as two nights my husband and i are business owners with
forty five employees in a small soft ware firm since adding more employees in the last eighteen months the cultures changing i blame mark easy going attitude increasingly there is
an attitude problem where negative pushed back has become almost a daily occurrence how do we lead our way out of this okay well this irruhman not by no means i shouldn't be in
sumter it is a challenge right you have to hit the receptor for sure and you got a let people know that things are changing now i would straight up have a meeting that you you sit
everyone down and say hey here looks happening we are growing and as we grow we are going to have to evolve just like a person as you get older you have to evolve you have to
become more mature and years some of the things that were going to have to tighten up right he is instead of you now every one's just a if you come in and you want to go you got a
you know it you kids birthday oh you had no prom that you you say look that's not happen any more we will do our best to let you out for your daughter's birthday we will do our
best to let you go take care of a family members when they're sick we will do our best to give you bones that you've become accustomed to we will do our best to give you raises
annually we will do our best to continue to take care of you but none of those things are guaranteed at all we are trying to be profitable in fact we have to be profitable in
order to continue as a business on top of being profitable in order to grow we after re invest in the company we have to take the money that we may have to put it back into this
company in order to grow and we are going to grow that is our goal and in order to grow we are going to have to put perseveres and standards in place now that will allow us to
maintain some control and efficiency as we grow if we don't do that we're going to fall apart so that is what we need to do now why do we want to grow the reason we want to grow
is cause we want to be bigger we were to create more opportunity for everyone sitting in this room were not try to grow fraserii every one the more opportunity of unhoused to
advance in leadership but to make more money that is what we are trying to do but we can only do that if we as we grow evolve and become better and become more ficient and become
more standardized in the next eighteen to twenty four months that is what we have to do as a company so i would have a meeting in say something like that something along those
lines lay down the wall it it now all so then you have to change your attitude the after somewhat change your attitude because you are mister nice god at all you in enough in his
vision he you know the husband or wife came mister mister and missus nice got and you can and should be nice as leader i understand that but at this point the the team needs to
get tightened up answer you're going to have to impose some discipline on them in order for there to be freedom in the future a surprisingly dry the we know that now i had a
friend who was a puttin an he was he worked with me i knew him and when he was a tincander he's a real nice guy super nicky when he was a tincander he was a nice guy supernice
things in or out good for him because i don't know that i don't want specifically know what happened but i know that things didn't go great and when he talked to me about it but
as the thing is when i work with him we were all boston i was young and less egout he we know we are all broute all have that level of spectator no i we can go out and have a beer
to night but to morrow money we get to work i'm i'm in the game and i i you know i'm i'm told a lie and that's pretty much what we were all like all was a most guys working with
this guy and when he got to this new place new command all of a sudden down like that any more and he was brought out with people and when we get back into work they they want
brow out a work and was no we don't need to lest the you we are a bearse last night and that's what he told me he said you know i i was to now you of a guy and i didn't get the
respect that i needed to be able to effectively run a patooan it was not good and he said something to me too which i i guess i instinctively knew or maybe i didn't put it stuck
with me you know it's real easy to give more slack to some one when you have one a tightly night trees a tartar do the other thing is hard to well listen to that when i have you
on a tight leash and i give you it is so your happy you like all look at cockeye trust me he's let me go a little bit i where i give you all kinds of got all kinds of slack and
all and have to tighten up i start pulling on the leash well guess what a choke her neck is youkahainen of and the further i got a pull you back on an malone you're joking for and
so by a time you get back to me you're ready to bite at you and so that's what you have to do you don't walk in and put the dogs out and let them run wild but to the end of
leasing wherever they want em and then try and pull him back in cause when you let him go by the way your thinkyou know this is a good dog so when i let him on around he's not
going to do anything wrong he's going to be a perfect saint when there's a chance of that's going to happen and there a chance that's a good dog you let em on around and we say
come back he comes back to there's also a chance to is not a good dog and when he gets out there he starts running a sardinian people were running in the road or doing whatever
that dogs do and so what i would you have to that dog as you got to pull em back to you and it's it's actually worse because we already know this is a bad dog now and you pull em
back he's past now and even a bit you whereas a good dog wasn't onything bad in first place an when you pull back any looks at you cos e i must have gone to our control i yarry
i'm back in line now sensitive the wave a whole thing on folds he is bad because the bad dog he's a bad dog and he doing bad stuff when he give him slack on the leash and when you
pull him back he's going to snap at you the good dog you give him all kinds of room on reaching anything good and when you pull him back but he goes he goes oh sorry i ain't as i
was doing something on one master true i'll i'll keep it in check now and you can give me more slack if you want or not doesn't matter i want to dan what you to trust me meanwhile
the bad dog he's just like growling jessie so that's going to be hard one in that like i said to satan possible but the big thing you got to do i think in the situation you got to
be clear hears what's going on you could even potentially out of the holwell you are of a speaker in racine ple you could even say something along the lines of you know he look
we've been runnin this realles been reeled youknow we've been done everything we could to to run this is lucas possible but we got a tightened up i think that's the i think you
could say that because you don't say look i've been being nice and i can't be nice in you more at that that comes across wrong tibet i say luck we've been runnin real lucie and
we've been trying to give you guys much freedom as we can and we still want you guys have freedom but we got to put some frames and place better cannot that are going to want lou
was to run this visit business if fishingly as we grow and as we scale you can call me on the one ye make sense when sal be clear and consistent you know like a a you know some
people don't implement rules and am speaking from an employee standpoint on where i'm looking at the boss on the gialla new rules to tighten it up so to speak on a anticipiatory
that ten taffetan you know managers browing out with i like to turn brow out by her or you never heard that you never heard that have a i don't think so not that i will remember
but i gainsaying i thought that was pretty common tenacula and nestle amongst a brow aerself brella one bring out ah yen the night club managers tend to brought with people or you
know bill out with girls or whatever the whites whatever whatever and now if you can boot with a girl yeditorial redoubly at different words for it age group of words whatever um
but not the less a ten happen so sinondowans in same situation you know you get night club is in dis desire as a business you know then they got to tighten it up and apply more
rules and now you got a you know whatever with the cock in it's like just little rules that they are and i negative attitude now alas oinamoral the brim a late person for whole
cock and sang as any way long or but am in tilataeans who on the man a year would implement the rules but ve don't follow the rules you know her it's man it they just won't take
an elegie more mad but when you see there is and then he died too unfortunately joel he was a he was used or boss for for a while and he he had to kinda do that like implement to
room but this was a day he would row out with you but like it was weird he did his weird kind of ballad where he would break some rolls but then he'd follow rules but the rule
that he broke he when i care if you broke kiting these real small teeny tiny one by the way ambut he was a real consistent person you know where you wanted something done we were
all doing it including him he and i remember thinking man this i really like this guy in that way as well were he telling us to do stuff but he won't let caseralla at all men i
can go into it then where this one other man as ours and they were straight up like on the manager here it is not caowslip me an it's a weird dynamic and i close anyway and he
wouldn't follow the rules at all you know but you had to cause you are the employee you know canathan but yet when you're a man as your and again from employees point and and i
see my boss following the new rules consistently them so much easier to sign on in iolanthe we're doing i dig it and yet you come by them with like what you said being clear oh
i'm down i'm down for the change i get it managed it uh yeah next question jocko no bad teams only bad leaders and always the same relationship with each boss yet you also staged
a mutiny how do you reconcile okay sir what he sarambus no bad james do badlesmere shelterers and is actually from before that napoleon said the same thing hack ward said the same
thing we reached change the words a little bit but so matter and in the other thing you talk about is that i was her have the same relationship with everybody whether they were
stupid or smart or whether they were aggressive her passive whether they were big eagle or humble i was at the same relationship of all of them that is they trust me and day
gamond do did you my job so how do i reckon sight then then then he starting stage to mutiny because we had a kind of a mutiny in one of my petonar i well i was a young unless it
guy is and so how can you do that right if i had all these great relationships roll my bosses and men but i stayed to money arresting it actually added decent relationship with
the guy that i stayed home uyeno than a think about it that so you go back to the earlier question while talnabi a redgate and you know being a rabble and and like i said you you
have to rebel when it is necessary so and also for the muteness in question i i need to make it clear here i didn't stay the meet wasn't me it was kind of a group effort that was
somewhat led by the leadership of our the enlisted leadership of our polton and it was a movement that i certainly supported and was on board with and we were kind of the e i
mafia in that platonise were on the head the voice of the people right it me in a certain group of guise actually from my bunglass who are wrong kinda ye canistered up the things
and i you know i it wasn't like the thing is it wasn't like the poincon her had a couple weaknesses right and maybe he wasn't the best attacked extrema be it wasn't that you he
wasn't the best shot or anything like was the best having no he was a good effort he tactically he was like marginal um but what he didn't have cockatail even have as even have
any humility at all and so he wasn't listening to any one that was giving him any important including he had very experienced senior and listened visors so the potion chief and
the patulo were awesome guy very respected seals one of them had been in the first golf war on the ground getting after it as much as he could so these guys were experienced in
the senior chief was a really really smart guy and this can was in listening to it and so you had somebody that in the situation was that would have been bad for the platoon to
have this type of leader in there and now think about this if it's bad for the patoon that it's bad for your mission if you don't have a good betonica execute your mission well
and that's the bottom line to this question that is how i reconcile this how does this situation affect the mission affect or ability to accomplish the mission how does it do it
if we have a bad leader and it makes us a bad patoon then we're not going to be a little confirmation and therefore i need to help get rid of this person because my number one
thing that i'm trying to do is be good at my mission and lily a more unified team is going to accomplish the mission more effectively and more efficiently period so that the that
is why it is so important for people to understand the mission and the goal and the commanders intent because all we your decisions are based on and guided by that understanding
of understanding what the missions the so unie to put the mission first all the time to make the right decision now as soon as i say that what passengered oh jack you care about
the mission more than you care about your men not true because think about this if you are executing your mission effectively you are taking care of your men that's in the
business world and it's in the battlefield because no business were if i'm excuting my my mission effectively gussoree doing were making more money when be more profitable were
gaining more clients were growing and therefore i'm taking care of my employes begetting them employed in making them more bonuses and making them a money and a offering them more
leadership opportunities in combat same thing if we are good and i execute my mission effectively guess wot we've made a gated risk the theaetetus possible way the more we met
agate risk the more people are alive the blessed casualties we take so if i'm doing everything dear towards the mission then then i am taking care of my men cause by the way if
i'm running a mission with heavy casualties or about my next mission right is a if you're my boss and you tell me to charge this machine gun nest with my guide and as the boss you
know we we shouldn't do that right now you you to carry out the mission okay we's going to do the next mission right there's not long limited guys here so you can't do it you
can't run a mission after you taken a habitable is just like you can't if you as a business person if you expend all of your capital on one project will get what you can do the
next project so good job you accomplish the one mission but you can accomplish any more on the battle field if you incur unch of castes for one mission you can accomplish any more
so in both those cases the more effectively you you handle the mission not just the one mission but your broad mission your shakeress the better you do that the better you are
taking care of your men and the better your taking care of your people in the business world so thin on top of that on top of that ninety nine percent of the time your mission is
a line with the best thing for your people that's what i'm saying ninety nine percent of the time if we may for money as a company it helps all might people if we if we accomplish
missions in the most effective in efficient and take the least gasates that's the best thing for my people so back to the question how do i reconcile these things i look and how i
can best accomplish the mission and if it best to complish the mission to rebel against what apotheose cases where i might not you might be my boss and i might not like you but
you've got a great relationship with the army commander and were working in their battles fassola sense for me to totrasmek you fired no it makes no sense at toever it's going to
be better for our mission if i say acco socks but i'm going to listen to me and were a mass oetinger make things work because he has such a good relationship with this army
commander that he easain things happen so i might not do it i might not stagione not based on the fact that you that your level of sacking but based on the fact that what's more
important to me is that we confirmation at if you have a good latinship if he armour amenotep your own if you were if you were in a business situation and you had you were not
doing a good job and you're one i support this you're not going to good job but you have this great relationships with all these clients and were accomplishing our mission will
because you built these great latinship an i jest goin to fire you because i think you're doing it feinting your copyreader of your men not actually i'm not what is best for the
mission now i might have cursed ary and terry plans to move you into position where you don't have to handle the operational things that you suck at and i might put you in a
position where you just going to become you know a business that a bus davy will you out there meet in greeting people cause that's what you're good at i might make that happen
but i'm not just going to go echevelee fire him throw away the the skill that you do have and now we're not accomplishing a missionary because i ruined all relationships because
now you go all these the old theear partners that we have in your going to a jacal fire me he's pathetic he hasn't realized what we're doing here i'm going over this company come
with me bring you miss over here with me so you reconcile it by looking at the mission and the mission is almost always a lined with taking care of your people and taking carrier
people in the sense of imposing discipline or not imposing dispense is being disciplined and making them work and giving them training them hard pushing them that is generally
what taken care your people as yet taken here your people as if he onoatoa you know ah don't rabot that video that you'll do the cline and i know you i know what your daughter's
birthday you go ahead and go home for the day and i taken carry you if i do that he and i think are you no not i'm actually hurting you because now we got a bad reputation we
delivered the video late the company passes word to the next company a says a osgar there their videos okay but doesta cause it was late now that's the reputation we have now fast
forward to six months were down siding i don't need you any more i'm going to make them be now i don't need for fido makes i only need one and you're not the one i ounainetai my
people if i focus on the mission which is heah i apologized i now tournatoire but guess what we owe his video we got to get it done and you got to get in here make it happen and i
take care you then yes i am i don't doesn't feel that way well yes i am yes yes maidlike sure there equipped capable and treated fairly yee i said imposed disappointment that
doesn't work ye but what you have to do you have to impose despot make sure there's disagrees that i got in a year cause you want to say echowe come in and make us viderit i
imposing on ybore this video we said we gointer in let me tell you the ramayon if we don't do this here's what's going to hurt one hartness this distention as eventually could end
up with his you not having a job in me i have an eventless medoline the sounds of that no you don't no you might be the wrong iakov this comebee not i enough but what do you think
though he mentioned missing your dat my daughter's birthday i don't miss wedoubt oh she did or did not i not but my son just had a first birthday i did miss that boded the first
birtdays i've always thought as before had any kids with any betise that the first word day that's where the parents some intensam the first jovis first for they never will in
defiling it be the wrong for a anilines missing birth days is that like a bell curve like okay one first rate each one you king sort of miss that a zero can't really miss that the
meaning wonder born going oogo talk to the military people in all ralph she i know i know ye now you're right and i'm saying if you have the option and you know were speaking in
terms of okay if you have ashtaroth the non it well i mean you sort o have a like of in terms of you know where that this company you my boss on the view maker he at golf you
don't get at the side dome whatever an i don't that may be even in extremis i'm saying in a general sense which birth days or more expendable that's ultimately the question and it
doesn't necessarily mean in this designment now as a guide he was in the military for twenty years the birthday if you are there it's a luxury if you there for christmas is
elusory in there for fachieux ury i missed all kind to that stuff all over the place just like a big joe big ben edes not gonna be there all so now hum were not in the military ah
no i too and it's less about missing on or niloiya at the end of the day no matter what birthday even right now you're thinking if you miss him no huge deal no i mean it and if i
actually thought it was a huge deep do you i would have to choose an entirely different life style and life bred right and i'll tell you what my kid now ye yohewa known well
caktoogwasees out there getting after the name is named my dandeleonine bert don't care i get you yet now you diggin but that's kind to you a way me not to be too position
splitters but i'm a duniway i mean not eat even the thirdly you earlier prithivi situation how are ardmorran brig actually round the spectre of a red all use i lines five through
eleven five delevan or have the most weight most weight agasi not zero not when they are born no so wolof you miss it the birth of your child because he had to work and not a
military i'm saying it because you're trying to finish some report or something or whatever or herooen triterica so that i dared to let speaking the the birth of a child compared
to the fifth birthday you say it birthdays more important they don't remember to think from zerefore prishtina the leigonani that's chiselstead afore i don't eat like all those in
the hills i hear and said you take your kids and i did this to actually i didn't i did with my first kids by weshiping put take the girls to disneyland and i kay walk around a
disney land which is pretty close to a living hell to adiagor sandy and lines in the anaheim summer time thickest baking and and yet you don't hear the death girls are just so
excited the whole time in so happy an me no you now i i i don't i haven't been to any of those things in a long time um as shawhan we low but business group and walked around
where disneyland disney world and and i like incogitative kill but this is the thing the kids don't remember it you can show pictures me long that's calecon statehouse pictures i
want langelinie the just said a opinion the relater you can before five the alfiero actually men let a good point because what i say now i'm sure there's developmental things
happening when they are when you do things when you participate tactories with your kids obviously a like the aurorie fear for you know you you could probably it probably be more
developmentally helpful for you to spend a day with them you don't coaching them and in digito coaching them in boxing or coercing them and moitie cloam and shooting or coaching
them in archery or coaching them in counting small animals or coaching them in how to do combat rama care to his like general fara for your tea right you oh yeah yeah that's not
what i was i in play on it disneyland look at yeh that's not the gestation like the birthday think so so she only cause you mention to as by eleven they don't care any more by
eleven the young care all gallometry land a cut on one my kids were we along like oh my birthday don't care yes of men that we pewee have a rule you get to take you where you go
off for dinner under birthday night and in the last like five birthdays we haven't even been able to pullanius year thoughtest you what the group is used to but as far as the kid
it you missing the birthday for you know for the coorse you know what i used to pick cause a vase to be in my family too we get to like pick dinner you know it to pick ye will you
can battisterio just from the floor or just genesitic en patties i used to love those things tangam in school with the color element to spice the love the chicken bannister there
don't the chicken patties are you coming ingeminate lot eglahkentana ye and i didn't even like i didn't like stake until i was in the daytime holostiak ran up because they could
expensive ye your man ashwicke reba yes especially the revisore we had thickened to me pretty doll and sometimes you don't elocute want mc donalds when your seven sure he at once
got to get some fries in a shamrock shake he shall we try a i a diet told because of you know i loved mentorship right so i had told all my kids about the the original men
shocklatch milkshake was the shamrock shake in macdonald's back in the dirghic they had round samaritan which by the way is armybut they both it just made came my mind yea so this
is so when i was a kid we add shamrock shakes saint patty'd there meant shakes and when i was a kid they were amazing and i was still and i hadn't had one then thirty years maybe
more maybe forty years hadn't had a shamrock and i saw little advertisement i said all kit sceat these are like men chargeships milk shakes but there's no chocolate chip so it's
just smooth men men ice cream milk shaking from mc donald ye and i sent my daughter out to go get us all go get us all shamrocks brownie they were disgusting they were nothing
like what they used to be yasoda i gave you a shot sorry baim surprised him a shot i am too but it's been forty something years be since i had a chamarande remember him yes i
figured i will go with it may be thereright gather probably got not even my shins like him not even my eight year old dan woesten is an eight year old that just looks at gangs and
say that's i scream i don't want it yes he like it not on down we all they were discuss me through him all the way antedate your money the dear theatre money ye don't last some
money in mcdonald that's why personal arcomin did i veridicate or unrighted yea e e n i hope not he not helping you in any way did you know that they just i've in this consonous
not in said out loud they add the green colouring to it and to the extreme vinaigre for the esau get briers its white yah i gliders of halicti and men to my wife and what it
famine family goes to a artergatis that's where the telamon cheesefactor chieftest reaction big factory and you king on little person he give you a sham like okay i want that man
mit chap of course and and when was leaving her and they had to do as i am like the first time i say i say hey that's not mine that's obviously just the regular chocklate you
don't own over here and i feel said that is like oh i ordered the men any ooame and then it all kind of came to me like all you i'm pretty dome from re you get briers briars as
white yea which is the preferred brand and be got honest or he is it okay i will at least lasserated be to one that i've tried yet so so back to the birthday name if you miss you
the birth your child technically you're right technically for the question because of talking about like how upset or how much on your lilian affectedly at all really but here is
the thing he had of it like as a cohesive family that might be a thing if you have the option of saying if you're overseas comma man he totateeta argono but if you're the corso
you miss a brother your child that's more black a family thing like cabot that's not want it that's not the question and because so is the thoist birthday the first year
breathitts kind of it's for the adult or for the soother single second serve force and saline at the fourth and iiieme during the game a little bit eh ye tepenacasco dition on the
they don't expect anything good he he i guess you don't eat like sacks man place socks not been special lot your stupid birthday rlile bunch of you born at dead that day bunch of
peboan to morrow bunch be born yesterday get over yourself kid concur four years old i know bunch of people would turn floorway ah agree aninted age two all away two twenty one
that's my opinion though the ones that if they want you there you you you i don't have that haiyat around at her twenty first birthday she better do it at homoousion allowing
comicalest now a check for any way more yet more jocko what do you think about when you don't feel like getting up ter it you know i put the out pother day and i think it's
important all right so rome wasn't going to day we all know that every one hears that but roll also didn't fall apart over night either it took hundreds of years for rome to reach
its peak but it also took time hundreds of years for rome to decay and fall apart and that is representative of life because you don't achieve war for while goals quickly or
easily they take time it astrangled they take relentless pursuit dan and day out that's what it takes but also things don't usually fall apart quickly either at least at first it
did it's a slow process of slip her little set back over there a little wearing down of discipline and will over time pat the thing success and failure are generally slow
processes either slowly building things up or gradually tearing them down and that why i say you've got to pay attention you have to all watch you have to watch every single
second because those seconds the torn in a minute the minute turning to hours and hours turning the days and days turn in to years and so that second that second the just went by
that counted in so did that second and so did that one and in those precious seconds your either building or you are detained your either gaining ground or you will losing ground
in that second and in every second every second counts so make every second count i think that's all i've got for to night so chapple one to make it count for this poast maybe you
could tell them how they can go ahead and do that if they want to sure be happy to actually with a goat origin what did pete choose origin as they he told the story right must be
slacken on the listening on the manless makes sense because the origin of all these all the gear is here in the u s sapins to be but that's a big thing the origin so what we make
geese said cotton you know well it would take the cotton grow the cotton in the u s we they do with the cotton the rein dearly do ye stuff yet he turned into a fabric of ye
already once yet and they do all at that they don't import it you know from wherever you know some undulled american aries yeah you know so maybe that's why it's called origin
because of the origin is a significant thing it january cool so organ what is arnor gin is the best gear in the world straight up objectively not subjectively objectively i got
proof on so i gie went to this organ emerging camp for gito organ judaising camp of good fun by the way that was your first time in the origenous man yes i'm in cana yes yes i saw
you with yours it was cool oh yes so cool can't get the gee um then i come home got two by the way actual i got to keep tops one per pent oh come home made me want to treat more
in the ye by the way i thought enough who was the gee or the camp were both put it oribital anyway so this will who we catch any and every single time i went in some one mentioned
the gee and it's not like its pain or something like that when they're like hay so he went out on this gets normal you can get the blight i had to have the white one and every one
psychopathitis over with one of them and lived a person who like you know if he says it it's something it's not like some you know fashion persons had one like that logretta a
cool one anyway you some one who knows keener one asked him like hot up with his geseline the shpell made here i might allow somebody cause it took real long sangai none the less
it's dull and then another as jeff eggs we now who that is he jennifer to eye the person that jostles about when he first started to get introduced to git the guy who reintroduced
to judithe yet he and i got introduced to judithe then he went out and strained hard yet i think it was the day he got his purple belt as purple houseful white men we trained with
mastery over seas that flexure months and then we came back we are in different poltons but he started training for i with fair santosian the day he got his pole beat i'm treasure
was the day esterelle came to my house and was like let's go train and that sad all you so think about perforait out in aniela trying all our walk yes that you know everything
really i could joke and at a tall to you strong put in beat down boy bony like in terms of wen he's impacting you with his elbows day a real bony heeding me dear he's got the
bones the cutting you you that i guess trying to feel like a incut your head off cuteness he lissome good you or to hear ye ye ye an ye any acute real he's got a real um he's
always in clutch with the whole idea of using this too effectively defend yourself in a street senora always in touch with it the always add in a little and if you are in the
street you could do this for a year i heawen up to studio fight forty yet oh ofor berry sir i had to train it ten ami had some stuff ninon then they are only doing no get a the v
sicksweet he exist teaching the class robs up he's the owner whatever even he mentioned the gitanilla like what is this i fascist's a different material especially not especially
may especially bovinely designed to forge to get sir yes o ye and of laciadae stuff don't levitate think i might have one you husein with that one thousand jesamines or whatever
and sikou don't have this one from and i just kept walking and don't any way that afterwards it was afterwards when his alike he like this is the i think he even said this is the
most interesting genus like rubinate in angers you know when gamaliel interesting get iversen something like that now when this is my jaculamur weave ye cause they have a no
perwersion persecute american pearl but the axiom that grillees is what is the dragon we've the loaver similar it that their both little ye want of boecklin it's like i'm not
going to say velvet magined that but it looks like that you know no looks like diamond which one was the one remember we're looking at em and a weirdless like like elsie danesly
superlation that's not the one i have by the way it was like this utter one out don't know which one was which but nonetheless people seemed to like thine and the fancy depit has
the its like you can choose drowsing but it has the un like inalienation they have the valcartier phidiases is like a four was the not just like her of which actually i'm not
against the whole a one into a three when you know i'm not against that it's actually in fine cool soferim um but this is good as sycionian order your pant size mallory now and
you put it on as gombeenwoman it is to and you know the public responded in that way as well so oh also rash guards to sir yes ricrearsi yea yea there is some cool stuff on the
and the point is really sure i'm talking about the gewin because i was all up in that geitland the thresh on my mind and it's you know one of the things that sticks in there oh
also at the camp oh you know how like when you give your laundry i only had you one saloue you lindau hear out aye you can't go to the next session unless you get another gee with
our canoes in ambriot that but so i would use them twice in a row and they dry surprisingly fast he's not in surprise the dread they are not one prescott egod hollister thinking
there were silver codetta none o cennini's anti my robelia coating on it yet i like silver you can see it yea but yeah that's one of the way that's the the that's the same thing
with my wen i pulled mine out when i pull mine out of the washing machine after the spensierati ye ye like a pariser short basically yeah but tangiferous naeyer though he anatomy
or origin men like the state mannon amain etori man dot com go in that is a lot of colophon there an a lot of it well placed out that's the best year in america all made in
america besharin the world all made a mere all so jallais omens so still on originator he there's a part and of cause i was looking for him you go on the top there and it's his
lab so you click on their boom that's where all the supplements super crillon's normal menial you mean jackals super crapehanging just do the crill hangin not anonynious super
kill white yet crill when you get soon he crillon of those still supercargo the cape songs you go and you'll um joint warfare which is you know a blend of joint some otemachi now
ye furbishing is furbishing a word aeriating ray but the refurbishing is dis doing it again i their furbishing eating a nato the things that i wish i yettocome kuruman um
contorted and a canoness in the form of sea cucumber sweet that ere comes from sea so he will then let gedeihen loines ting i guess he could call it layers is this is exactly what
you were taken for years yean you're like gegesa or jane in the house lit just to make that do ye ye well so to that have to come bind different things before yet but now it
refounding and are there already commisioner have i had in the one deadly on the dwarfer joint work against pargains joint weakness up to god do too by the way because now i got
to get remember when i i told his story like you know when you wake up you in my dissuades sarmatae against though esenoplastic kamasura when you wake up that's your leaf warm
that's when you're trying to warm up an get dutasta least warm you'll ever meet just in everyday life is when you wake up yes a first twelve beforehand when he or it would be for
you to the bertha moment so this is the exact moment when my daughter an you know forty pounds or so jumped on my back my shoulders but back whom shales whatever she chose and you
know after i took chiefer think t was like five six days full i could easily do any and have to like focus on my form nothing like that now i got two kids and my daughter whose
older is heavier and so not this morning yesterday morning i go with croup or school whatever i already have my son he weighs out a home at you was but he's won i have him she
still wants to jump my shoulder i have him because he's like all i ninetythree i'm the what you call it the vehicle that their writing on early in the morning by the way stillmore
still going strong plumelet that's a joint warfare a situation right there in cruel superposed on it he'd be glad you did also checkout on it dot com slashed jack this is where i
get my kettle bell sonantem mentioned this i got the rillons femily two pounds somesing right not lifting cruising and jacomb other come solicitate out this new kettlebelly a god
and goes salyado as a god pickemup's or pappachen you know but i've been doing cattle bell so like now let me show you for bornite warmed up nothing speaking or while yet he was
actually rarely the crill foot springing into action agregado it and ah you don't have to show him what up none the less that was done with those cattle bells which are not
bytheway um i have not gone a see get the design ones not to say that i think you should but i'm not going to say to do that i say go on there on it dotcom slashed of check it out
you like something get something they got cool that ropes in any kind of exercise stuff like the new stuff functional training equipment keep your work out interesting if you care
about you work out to being interesting unlike jocoseness um don't get addicted to the interesting information like i did i think i passed that a diction now but oh you know you
do run that risk on it tuonela acasta good un also good way to support it when you bines looks at joories we did review one to day but you know in the future jumlah and has in the
past am i we organize these books by episode on dacoited as acomin the top click on books from pages boom all in order to support the pacaset ugh there to get him fomite it amazon
support the pagata also if you do in any other shopping hayfield free you going to buy a new video carman the event of your video camera breaking on the plan when you check your
luggage and the vesinet get another one boon get it through there all good be a a big support on the one what is seems like an opportune time to talk about your other video camera
sure ah yes yeah pefectly it's a good story though to wit's not like a tragic story which i kind of felt like when you mentioned in a oalibou me that other so here's a story we go
to maine right technically we got a boss in the assured to me no right so you know don to go to drive you we rent a car a you know the car ran all place and i have three bags will
you have what one too yet two bags wove fine a emilia and my circus yes though my bags total i have a big bed with equipment in it suitcase with you all otaheitans what not and an
third bag which was the carry on it pretty big you don't most important when i wearing has a a as an important camera in there that i used my my favorite home i have ever had
really good temper oh pesada to it will say and if a red cameron yet raather yavitch nic let avidis iterare some camera is it the best you can bisterne more eighty pens on which
you mean but best but it's it yeah there's one cortile unawares an ancien he ain't cheap at all in some places in country you could buy a house for the cost of the cameron yet so
as inexpensive camera yea and and you think like okay echoes goatie really good care of the one with a yearly that's why i carry it on a bonbonnieres anyone touching it conterai
with him yes okay continued so only he is a rinehart we got apparently got five bags still count for a washer was no there's some kind of confusion you know what a yonderways
remember because you remember when you you're getting on well as like an expedition meanlike that and now these new ones have that automatic taledo that goes up to and you know
what it was i think there's like a censer under the bumper and that if you like put your foot under their illogic if you know like a hand free closing the erosion of the thing
started closing animando yet and the girl the retold was trying to save me yet and she couldn't yelowstone for which is got a funny because i didn't even care and i just kind o
like pumacagua was watching her kind of chuckling she's trying to stop it and winston it was useless he had a look in her face like i was about to die he go serawoolli and an a
jones is gettin off my door slamming shut and i was just kinelike laughing at the whole situation yet but that caused some confusion apparently he was later line he was like a
little micromeria that happened and saw as i bombasted but wat wood all the bags or in or not and were trying to fit remember because we you were tending it the seat down de
therelay three was i made you think going on no no no i toandt but like storm discontenting so pulling we at it all all all i long as everyone for asked wingate allow it and at
one point like were like half way up the three hour dried up by the way if we don't stop and we did stop so was like five hours of smiling that so we soffaire ber hint all that
frederick and by the way yerselves idioteai was stoked and then the less it had i thought and it was literally lasted three seconds like i don't really remember putting my camera
in the car but one of my new not partition the car this like be most important back to whatever so we just continue we get up there and right as we pull into like park they were
tiroirs water will in the back country of maine ye like not even knowing for time there by the way which one an owat that it means but either way were there and i will pump you
gernois my rib of stoke to go in and see every boding out yeah you can see him whatsoever thing side the light of the gym yesterday can't see that we're outside yeah tomobei stole
tillie beginning of the ideal gondaser if you will and a right as we can a roll to a stop unthinking man day know you cannot count where here and now you start to confondent
remember that stuff to the firing into a look in the back seabeasts where it would have went not there and i'd look in the back not daring hoheiten cold tang that just rushes over
your body iamy god so like men so whatever i tell you in your life all you know get on the phone you know called airport in bradyon ever trade calling the air poetasted you this
afterwards my opinion was at that point i etretat things going one per cent on any ingannato nine point nine nine nine per cent you never goin to see that a tangerine id already
caught it away emotionally and ashootin you bones like a call the airport ye can help you that will do all you nice of you lay it because you really you seem like you care not
nothingbutt continually but you care about me yeditorial i thought i think was gone there's no chance of getting their backdoor it ye an i was only titian you know is there
poncarear that you don't have copies of on their owen could now they're all up loaded using good thing yes yes is we're not restating an can ye an i was thinkin i'll see it again
in three months maybe when they finally recover it from mastino from the boss an air port by the way uh all i get mentions money for it down the line in the tagore go through the
purchase possible jesting coutane we don't have it for the trip for sure and later on i i it found out or realize that we have the pocasse edgars and there so while we take
escateopan way none the less or we get there and i'm calling the airport and right on the airport recording picks up a just get this feeling like all my gosh i'm just completely
going through the motions rayton's got to pick up and be like sure all a fortyeight it no one not of not then happen but i keep calling on me i'm not going to be the guy who did
into everything i can some calling or whatever mean or we got to go talk to pet we got an you know all this eadable to me go having go ahead all like these cases like a hero you
hang out and make us from whom totally worthless effort as you never seen that thing again i'll go hang out people yea so after like a few minits at it go in i'm like you know
what lime whatever let me decent cut it away as the element leebrace it you know what we're doing go in and you kind kind of casually in a way mention like hay there's some guys
in rome the police to be a game a crosscausey i shouldn't have made a comet crisi met a bunch of guys you even in saint i and a couple of guys you you you or work copoeia down and
mast utes and we a right by boss the anext and and i'm the i met them and then and anon you stroll back in and you met the couple of people and then i said you talk anybody will
ye otohime going to lock whatever i'm thinking the out things gone and i said you know what if there's any one in the world that could like make something happen right now it's
come yes tell it if costan cops reveals and what i had not and i just said i should broke and i was a little this is my ego i was enbarrassed for you ill i i felt bad that you had
to go and tell somebody that you lost this yet sick camera and so said haan those guys over there they're cops and resonne like an eel get this thing back it's them yet and i'm
thinking you know they'll wilt story were like jolly he this sir did you not think that they were going to be able to help it i thought that they be like all you lost dear bagier
one does every single day and that airport oh workup prowler in the soft the no i i get your stooping my attitude of that thing being gone actually changed as soon as i connected
as sedoocer consternitur is on them and they would make examineth that good and you and even me when i was like okay i'm on a mention it to these cops in these cuts like a fall
like what you what do you think our job is you know to go recover your lost luggage like do three hours away by the layer mesomelas to do it i'm just going to do it this is
another go through the motion to staying so i kind o timidly go denison matter they they just rolled whatever and as a kalabutan they were like like what it looked like like a
kite are into it i'll i'll this is promising you only they actually care cause i'll thinkin they'd be like a man that's a sad story brow in a go talk to jolyon thing i thought
that an get a half and they are like no brother get on the phone there and they're like what i look like boone question like well aware it when you leave it okayama on the phone
back on the home best two guys on my cap this is its starting his kind o look up manelike okay so they hang up the follies just a waiting even now just a matter time i got this i
got his gun like rotherline a man just waiting erosional any hollister called all the row ober and mars like a force to personate so gettin there at that big recovered him what
twenty minutes hunaman so lethe hang up and they're like dust mantinean we just start talking about other stuff yet you know penitente a little bit whatever i did serve it hot
even ten times up but and then we were talking about of the self booms porings he's on it he's like is it of the mind ship it bag and all this in describing it don't even know
that he ottimati think so go inside i must i any any bustle my lap top or whatever it's matching the description and in my mind i'm like this no way he's counted like a cassock or
a just rolling to the location and find my bag no way that's going to happen but what have the sharing of he's a a you fragmentarily on my only laughed up he's like fragole that
will pull the feeling turned into just warm and alive in rainbows on the the one they are like and you know they are kind of standin actually high five but there kindlike almost
like you know this this little path the kinnabalu like that man eminate it it tended him and then on a horotorio robby dear that's a name right round isaiah a roll uh actually
there was another guy callahan who was the guy who went ingrato i was like a coordinated to matter in a man do like the one of the more heroic thing that it happened to me in in
the recent past so got the cataract a hammer in the computer yes and we're good so in the event to the point is in the event of shopping for cameras can get a red cameron amazon
but if you want to get like a seed handicap you forever you using cause it broke in the loggage nothing that happened to me i'm sainian to nogent one bone mean go through their
jokester out come quick through all in sankarin oot there came roback yes much appreciated and a laugh of with all kinds of videos and important stuff on it yes actually this
esurientibus that the yemen denison need the primary guise mister callahan i needn't meet him but do you do maybe gastered thus in an robbyoure will you tooth in yolo aherman
oportere it be up to all of them big time so also back to support of jacopone subscribed to places i doe stichera good way to support kinderkins like all you you subscribe to read
but some people may be they did it may be they are discinae wish not which watch but you know cannot on the spans hamdo it with your eatin up on subscribe if we're not dealing
grindae i don't like to use that expression adding value on it when you is it thinks of cool i thought i was cool noteless ever not adding value can not subscribe if you want also
subscribed on you too what's the recent development old year book m dispensary fleminian al which to talk about later ohyaht a video on there a pen a little summery hum ha i was
real excited to see that video come out yes and i was a wee you we are tacking back and forth and we about you know we will will put it out to morrow but it's ready and i said to
poor not now yea yea lad i know didn't you said launching in three two and he now was and i went to my you too my tone and i was blue refreshing pain refreshing refreshing
refreshing and i wanted to catch it like the first person to catch in a rushing refreshing and this happened i got a paying for my mail and my foe and i switched a mail and it
said jacopone's up loaded new video table one of the benefits of subscribing to you to channel if something comes out you can have it email you if you wanted to if you have it
email you when something you comes out and otherwise is no way no yet so if he if you care about that ten stuff of which you know is one of deals where ester you get the video
version of the poncas if you care well we look like define actually people played on their t v like the in their little home jam or something we are that which no school can like
rather together you know tom and then yes to excerpts in there the video that you made for the book yes i think it might be your best video ever at might be i think it's not there
man i yet to ideal good of tokobo on face book and an i call have evie's cap and i thought about that allsman thanks for that but i thought about as a weijoride all the work
really you know you're the one working out your word that you say the words i say all i did was put some cool music and some words on a riever adalante stuff happened and there
are the words in the way it's all got word dated together and all that stuff so to like luther none the less on known to be honest i i'd like how i came out to yehoodee there
ingliston i am an you know it depends on what you mean by best you know i know im back from abe sure a good one i like it yes it was a effeminative you do jane if they might not
never know that dividest that's true and that that matters or no face book or known to aroronon eye fortoor ear to her well down i wathawatti won out but i don't always eat out
when something comes out ye es that's true yet on always do that sure seuderie you will read said what my actions are not true and you know those of a not you want to learn you
know sometimes you don't want that alert every sing will time but sometimes you do you know a pulsometer seems on there as well anyway not all as yet you do genewal one end of
school i think it's cool jocko school at last i just got a little thing you do kinching there to look on you to but enough you notice her eye you start you to judge as you to
bread now o ye now add so the red to do none less i liked and actually live they did god a good thing with ads now now you can click like idle like dead were on give that so you
can cantinero down then you see i like the movie trailer adds you know i don't waringin watch what i want a watch everness get away from me ye ye did it then i do fully tuneless
point darius subside subscribed to the e to channel is a good way of supporting bocas if you want to all so joculators called jocko store jocatore out come of course i creative
name by the i guess technically i came up with the name dear you did just store in her storage jocasta i can cure with the name ye so what we have in the store if you don't know
already that sure son there rash cards travel monks some bumper stickers patches hats balatas not like did you ring mine to day to etourdi it hears several you'll be nine yet none
the less there on there doctrines technically you could go to your own story and get a hat or nine hats as the case may oneida to day thank you are if you want if you want to m s
women stuff on there some goodies we want to get a ticker that he that's are doing a i know you said or the open buchten oh yeah we'll work on that so there had tom hoodies m i
think what what's the next move with the next thing when her winter had he hurt yeh angashore think i'm going to put a war your kid rash garden there too for four works doing no
deed you get you or even goodnow you were the resort undestined de yeah i think that we do alonst none the less all star that's where you get jackstaff spree so i'm not saying i
something i'm sing go on there check it out if you like something get something good way to support also psychologic warfare you don't know what that is said it is an album which
track jollier jocko saying stuff to you so if you listen to it it's not like a story ran like a late you know lot at times is not music obviously is not jocose or court which you
do from time to time by the way you brighten here's the kind of a rhetorical question ka have you ever ridden not you jacobite the people out there have you ever ridden with jack
for five hour three to five hours in a car no okay maybe tell you what it's like part of what it's like it's jackal deeming even in their plane by the way you're uming on what you
call that the handle in the door like you doing like don summoned then singing under his breath hard coarse stuff oh what else reingratiating compete reassumed its something
anyway pracordia yet but he was song i was under as ever a casion i look at you and you'd be looking like can you please stop ye which i got a kick out of me you and butteryest a
carnegie or some yeah you get out and walk yeoland's i was the look first ye wait no you get out stopping you out toustain the less these tracks are not that there him i am
jolting to you telling you pragmatically is to get over your current weakness what weakness okay so let's say you're tryatic to good diet ratty to wake up a really or all is not a
boer at the moment actually yeh hurry only one forty eight hours erectly to hungay i guess technicians to cause he at a salient olgierd cowork outerest ray and today roast night
sandy per cent rebate tweet to still but andy den light rolls little bit with nam the ghost but yet no what i stand the whole time teaette ically in my fasting faisal at like
eleven forty five last night will you now it is desemparee ye fasteners tony far or fast no no oh twemlow fast no yeasting not at it cried is there citing as an eight hour fast i
see that is life and waiting is like to for in her he not doing to your not doing that least twelve hours i'll get twelve hours as the cut off for calling it a cormittee cut off
had ordinata doctor yet but here even a uterentur fasting right now currently he would i like you just did any yet and whatever i just didn't eat yet there it effortless what's
the difference that i don't know what it neronian of humility see you that no one is not like that not the last back to psychologic warfare if you're trying a stay on the fast or
wake up early every morning you know or sticktoit stand the program whatever and whatever way ways that you have opportunities to slip this is an album with tracts that tell you
why you shouldn't slip on your waking up early your diet your working out my whole thing you know like i've said before if i don't feel like working out a kind of tend to be like
all may be all rest to the maybe i'll do it later you know that whole thing not if ye tis heliote i'll just tell you like why it'll how in an out choates you the benefits of not
slipping and the repercussions of slipping mercenary rifmatic way but his jocatore hundred per cent of the time my spirits speaking or fasting in people ask me alltime when your
fasting do you eat any thing i do actually sonance sanfords because it takes you like thirty seven minutes to have one little tiny seed to get it tod and so in rent but there but
they're good cause they keep you occupied in your chewing and a taste good and blowball sometimes i'll grab a handful of not to mix not just may be one in the morning may be one
at night ye when handful and jocolate tea for that's the the things that does i won't eat the nuts but i to i i i i i do you have to be careful that you don't have thirteen
handfuls on not yet because i like i'm detain like a handful out right um but jackie i have that for sure and you know what if you call me now or you on a point like a you won't
really fast in because you have jack awake kind you had a infornin if you think about the matter calories that i burn on a daily basis a handful of not to specially and
significant but whatever may be i'm doing it wrong that's what i unjustly what i'm doing i'm not tell you to do it i'm not telling you to cop you what i'm doing is tell you what
i'm doing right now don't imitate me go find a professional talk about fasting i'm just telling you round doing john awaited but we tell haygood feels good and increases our dead
left about twelve fold or so the nation for you you near on mason all sonatine can get some books extreme ownership combat leadership i appreciate every one that gets it for
themselves and then gets it for their teams and sent pictures of forty seven extreme onderstood stacked up i got something else for you that's awesome get it for your business
associates people that you work with but they're not in your company you get it for them and that's going to prove everything your world too because then they start taking over
ship a promise and everything intatte so no and i had a lot of people that have said he i gave this to this person gave it to his yparted that i used to have and now he's got his
own business but we're bore can together and i gave the book and now we'll work together or more so there's good idea for you wait the warrior kid this is altinat the organ camp a
bunch of people from all over the north he brought their kids up to to meet hang out get a signature and and all that and what's caiseal kids tell the truth you entimeters even
they're not aware of them care about your feelings at all minoan if awesome did you know it away say to kit o did you read that book they go yes i how you like it and they all say
i love it as assume an we know your cocoa thank you for writing it and those kids are getting stronger and smarter and tougher and better so you and help out kids that you know
get him this book right here this pinnacles freedom heeled man that's what it is it's a fee may now for those he has don't know what a few manuals and the military of field man
nowell is the instructions on how to do something in the field whether it's attack a strong objective or whether it's duracinae or how to conduct her patrol the field manual gives
you the instructions on how to do that and that's what this is the discipline freedom feel manual is a field manuelito to implement discipline into your life there is zero a mount
of fluff in here the zero whether there is nothing in there that you scared i said yourself i think jackman this end here for you know anatapein space in the pages didn't happen i
rather not do it and rather burn the whole book and on't care about that spoke not long enough corrales it so that's quite is get it from your local bookstore so good out to the
neighborhood bookstore and telling you of this book or you can get it from barton you can get it from amazon let them know what's up it's in the get after it section of your book
of books to hell if they have one of they don't have that section they need it so they can put this one book by itself in there no getting after it you're ready as also by the way
thanks to four your business if you need help a lining you leadership and improving the way that your whole team leads together check out or leadership and man from its ultiman
called atalanta me lay abingdon dave berk you email in so at echelon from dark com finally the master september fourteenth and fifteenth i'm pretty sure i sold out by the time
this pot cast comes out we been able to squeeze the govemor people in it each of these moners sold at we got in like foot for more people three more people seven more people jack
might be completely so out but fixations dark com in it if you want to work on a pretty soon get the dates for the two thousand eighteen masters going so started looking to that
and it registered as early as you can and until the master if you happen to one keep cruising with us kind of hard oh we are on the interweb on twitter on instigate and at this
she pull ho at go is at equator in a imtahan can finally to the military members out there seating on some forgotten barricade holding the line to protect us thank you to the vats
that stood all the wall and did there time thank you to the police landforce men fire fighters in these other first responder thank you for what you do dan an de ol and to the
rest of you with goals in dreams and aspiration made sure you remember that second turn into minutes minutes turn into days indeed turning the years so make those seconds count
all of them then the till next time this is echo and jocko how
