this is jacopo as numanity two with haters and me joaille good evening achoo evening the concept of finding in it is relatively simple it is essentially identifying what doesn't
belong in the natural area in front of you before one proceeds however one must insure that all of the marines with them or at a safe distance such that if the searcher
unintentionally detente and eyed during his investigation the marine he is with will not be harmed the first step is to take a good look at where you are and where you plan to go
identify anything that looks out of the ordinary with respect to nature but world naturally doesn't often have patterns or perfect shape sentially you are looking for areas were
used sospetto man has been in contact with nature when one patrols in the same area frequently one can establish a base line observation for what to look for and what the area
looks like normally thus on subsequent visits it is possible to identify elements that are out of place the next episode vestigate the route that you have chosen through this
danger are the three main tools used for this investigation are the eyeballs a metal detector and the cutting edge digging device called the human hand proceeding slowly in a
forward direction one swings the metal detector in a fashion that covers every square inch of the chosen room in order to do this start with the metal detector to one side of the
room and move it straight across to the other side keeping the search head an inch roto above and parallel through the ground once it is a cross moved the detector forward half
the length of the search head and swing it in the opposite direction to the original side of the room this is a process that continues for the entirety of your time moving through
the danger area at some point during your movement along this route you will want to investigate certain spots that you think may contain an i d you can be alluded to these spots
in multiple ways from your earlier sessamen before proceeding through the area newly acquired suspicions as you move through the area and also from sounds that your metal detector
makes the process of swing the metal detector back and forth and inching forward his time consuming the best of the best are the ones that can optimize safety and keep time spent
to a minimum it is always better however to er on the side of caution except in the most extreme of emergencies the investigation of a suspicious area must proceed with extreme
caution he start by kneeling down being sure to be well banane and stable you must insure that no gear is going to accidently fall off or slip out and touch the ground you reach
out with your fingers and with the gentleness of a butterfly landing on a daisy move the dirt in front of the front edge of the metal hit crucifera a manometer at a time in this
fashion on covering more dirt over a wider space until you find either finds the metal that set off the detector or you are satisfied that there is no danger from this particular
metal hit if medalist found the area must be reached actions that the metal was found was not a decoy one may think that the tension during this time is akin to being compressing
ling inches above a motion sensor floor but the necessity of having a clear mind and the amount of practice that has gone into the exact process makes it seemed second nature and
ordinary after you are satisfied that you have cleared this suspicious area perceed forward as you move forward you are also proofing the lane that thing proofing the lane or
confirming that is free from ides is usually done with a special mechanical device but it is now being done with your feet and don't forget as you go forward to lay down markers
for every one else you comes behind you to follow this is the way that i handled the situation i was now in a anged forward with my metal detector i didn't see anything special
about the area my metal detector was making noises but nothing large enough but i thought it warneton the marines and alphito watched and waited as i cleared and proofed the lane
then it all went black now that description is about as good as i have read about the act of searching for its then i actually never searched for id in that type of method in of
course in remote every one was always searching for itiers looking you inspecting we were suspicious of every pile of rubble every piece of junk on the road every off colored
piece of dirt or pavement or concrete or sand but we were in the city and he was a destrieri and most of the ads were targeting vehicles not footpads but whether in a vehicle or
on foot the aid for the most part has been the biggest threat and the biggest cause of casualties in our recent wars in for the enemy it's a low risk high reward weapon and for us
it's an evil weapon it's a cowardly weapon and it is an effective weapon is a weapon that plants itself in your mind always there waiting around that corner under that curb on the
other side of that sidewalk it's waiting now there are those gusedub it is to actually interdict that weapon the the ide it is their job to face that fear a close and personal
dain and dale you've got old explosive ordnance a sposal is one group that does it complete professionals and the ill detection that i deplored within the superascendant in
everything that they did which by the way was not only find in disarmed they also did everything that we did they'd cleared rooms and petrol through the streets and manoeuvred and
fire flights just as the seals did they were awesome and in addition to eldoma engineers in the army and in the brine cors also due mine clearance and of course i talk about
combatants a lot because of the incredible role that they played in the battle for odin the comet engineers were at standing in their standard job of building combat outposts and
building in maintaining the the infrastructure of the basis and they were they were awesome in that performance under fire but at some point the combatants job more into mine
clearance and it's because i would suspect you know they work with them alicias so so combininge de breeches to doors and two walls they build bridge roads and bridges and they
also clear obstacles from roads and bridges and so eventually at some point this more into combinators doing i d clearance both on roads and in out on foot beals now there are
jobs in the world that i wouldn't want to do and this is one of them i take a mass of amount of patience a takeable amount of skill and it takes no credible of ability to overcome
fear to if you're going to actually seek out and touch the thing the very thing that is trying to kill you in order to stop it that's a job that i didn't want then and i don't
want now and i am thankful that there was others that stepped up and did that job and i'm honoured to have on the podcast to night one of those brave men a marine court combattere
who served in iraq and in afghanistan and the guy by the way who wrote that opening description of what it was like to go out and hunt for its baby the name of mister rob jones
rob welcome to the shelf he is and this is an honour from it to be i disbelieve percieve me the opportunity to to come on the show all men trust me go the honors all all are of a
thousand per cent you canteen argue with that that new one we let it open ah but give us just before we jump into our marine cork career just give us a little primaria on growing
up and what that where that was and what would like can i answer you cation about uh how combinates came to find idea of presto so when you go to commit engineer school one of the
things they teach you is mine field and placemen and defeat you that you use mind detectors and metal detector sighing that's the main reason that it o i wonder rewarding that
came from world war two i don't know oh so good question i said a more into i was thinking like back the er you must have been some time in world war two with he said you know kay
where we were going to get over this river okay so comoedies going to get with river ah where god um secure this compound okay we're going to secure the compound or were rebuilt
this compound okay well it some point they said you know what what if there's mines there okay well we got to get em cleared out ye so at some point they realize that you can't
build that you can't clear right yet and you can't move if you can't clear so as got to do it ye somebody's got to do it and and they weren't able to slough off that job on the
somebody else which is when i want i witheric what i would have absolutely been tried do like a can we get some also do that jump a ah yes so that's good so i show'd you unto
prominent ah ye my back round a group in a on a farm ah nothing really special about my upbringing the sikattar is a horse farm am i hated horses because they had to pick up
serenata is what do you do what is the purpose of a horse for though the farm that i grew up on the purpose of it was my parents would take people on or speck riding trip okay the
money in the take him off for a couple of hours in the forest god it doth inistow was my duty to clean up after the horses feed the horse his stack their hay bales in the summer
time get them their water so i didn't really enjoy the horses as much as most ingleboro know i'm thankful that i i had that experience could i think it did it still me a work
ethic that doesn't depeople don't get you so i i i think when you come from cause you want of guys to when i come in the military the they've never worked hard before but the guys
i've met the military that came from some kind of a farming background there like he is not so happy here to a mouth ree o'clock in the morning you know milk in cows or on ever or
clean in up a horse shit in your case thou then the number of die will i have wheeled this will barrel full of minor upon a fence board on the big pile her tone fell off that and
every horatius as words i hate and i hang liteinoi like horses fine that i on unclad grover you're a horse petasai song what you you you graduated from my school and then you you
and call right yoletta tech ah i was actually a computer science major am i already suspect him impressed so as agoes impressed on sabachshe some point during that ah during my
college my soft more year i decided that computer science was not for me to you you'll know it on the righting betrayed died to sighed i don't know i i felt like i had spent the
first twenty years of my life kind of looking after myself and now i need to to do something that was beyond my own self interest and a body of my ingesting the marine corps so i
ran a couple of books about the rancor brother had appears about the battle of pay lalun i said he that's what i want to do i wanted you in the ringer so before telling my parents
for telling anybody looked up where the recruiter was went down there he wasn't there reincorporate there air force cure tells me come in his office and held me by the air force
and said he is tomewhere ringer cooperese nothing is the air force but i had already decided on her marine corps here and so i i joined up and he gets it i this may be right a
wrong i'm pretty sure triterica has like the lowest recruiting budget and they have the highest recruiting numbers because it's the marine court no it's the star there approach i
guess i like all you want to be on ustani you it is good locate so i joined out as the reserves my ristal plan because i i was after my june year so i wanted to finish college at
least so my risen plan was i did the ninety two day reserves program where i went to boucanier my junior year not epinus my last year of a college and then i went to job school
and incite how did your academic performance change or did it between pre bookam and post broke it didn't hold it because i think i kind o checked out a college after my junior
year i was lad some go to pay but i i tontawanto get this degree done it desave it um now after i deployed a few couple times and have a little bit more like his principia be a
lot different and but just those three months ago camped didn't really changed my your academy eilenroc arati was funny smiles the smart enough i just didn't care that watching
out any more i am somebody at my original plan was to do that and then have the little bit of experience as an enlisted guy and then use my degree to become an officer but when i
was in engineer school after that that second summer my company my reserve company said were sent a volunteer button to iraq so i said while that's the whole reason i joined up
was to go fight the war so fruit an officer going to deploy and so then we go to my first point so am i thought it was pretty you got a good note near about oh about the marine
corn and amusing on this read this i'm taking this stuff for from your your general that you have all one which is as assorted so here we go back to the journal the record began
to shape me long before i ever arrived at boot camp in parisian south caroline carolina it started when i read the book brotherhood of heroes the tale of the battle pellean world
war two it was through the stories of the of the marines told the nose pages that i was introduced to the courage spirit to nasty altruism and brotherhood that the marines possess
qualities that i would soon be ingrained with as well the basics of these qualities were taught to me in my fellow with creeds and boca through the entry but effective means the
proverbial step it was through punishment that we were shown what it meant to possess the attributes of a marine punishment would come in a variety of modes based on the same
count concept countless pusus set up sprinting carrying and of course screaming the gillises would use any excuse not that they needed one to inflict pain upon us not being loud
enough looking in the wrong place in perfection and uniform dirty squad bay and not moving fast enough for their inspections to name a few burial of the situation was that we were
never allowed enough always looking in the wrong place never had perfect uniforms the squad bay was always too dirty and we were simply too slow the idea wasn't simply to
pointlessly inflict pain but to teach lessons using the pain as the instructor it was to force us to make ourselves better so the whole patoon as a whole would be better the idea
was to form a brotherhood through shared suffering and shared dependence it was to teach us to keep fighting the pain so that the petunias a whole could stop being punished the
point was that once we reached perfection the requirements changed so that we were forced to constantly reach for it thus forcing us to become better than we ever knew we could be
this is how the marine court takes hunk of iron and turns them into jewels steel that's why the marine court dozen need a lot a recent undeniable true and i like that i like what
you pointed out the shared dependence and how when you're going through but campanario and and training scenarios that are really hard you realize you're not going to be able to
do this alone and you're going to have to rely on these other guys who you may not in the civilian world you wouldn't have even been associated with and now you're not only
associated with him you depend on them for four year survival and to get through it and that's i think that's what makes an that's what makes that military experience and
certainly the marincola job of it they tell of foliating that bond that is is unique to the military yet that's what that's the thing that makes marines will they are and brings
out the best in people when their doing something not for their own self interest but for somebody else and i would volunteer for the worse stuff shot i could prevent my bodies
from having to do it like walking through the praties river boocaneer whatever trying to find weapons cashes in iraq and then getting back the end of the day to totally soaked and
covered in trash water on on they come in they were doing it again he wants to go and like the adagio and that's why i think that's why i really i i kind of enjoyed the
combination or old to because i'm going on there protected people protecting my bodies protect another marines and take the risk on me an i mean that's what he inemies all about
anybody else would have done it too and so you go your first to point it to iraq and um what was that the point like where you go a habanera are and what is of his is two thousand
eight city thousand hetepet mellow at two thousand eighth year ah iraq cut a slow down that point wasn't much going on but we had one tiny little incident where we were on a
convoy and some guineas were fired may be three a c rounds and then ran away and it was so now had nothing and that but that was the line the first couple weeks like a rehearsin'
etheridges onse to the three rounds were eyford even i i continued sitting in the back of the seven ton too if it redbacked eighteen year old a lance corporal on load with seven
hundred rounds of fifty gall earth no was a long convoy so as way up there and i was like a got a get out langage to get up there but it was it was over before i i it was doing
when she for this so back to they were turned fire on him no i don't think so i mean he liked he did one of those things are raised over and isinene are both time anybody was able
to figure out where he was he gone so that was but that was in the first couple of weeks or a kind of of that start and then ah h nothing else happened really what we you guys
doing your hat to pointment i guess it was kind of the ah the bill portion or all the of the strategy at that point you know we were we were helping the local population build up
their cities built we were helping to build a race police stations and but what i spent most of my time doing was when we we would go out and find buried weapons cast it so just
these old stores of our pigs and stuff that the alcade used to be using broth but they just left there and then so the local population would so some i would give us a tip broth
and we would go out to this big field and they'd say yet supposedly somewhere in here there's a a weapons cash so he take out a metal detectors and sweep every square inch of that
field or hill or wherever we were tree tree line and until he either desert determines nothing or we would find it an we dig it up and stack it in the year become a blow it off
and were you attached to a like in a combat engineer polton for or we reached ornate before yes the way it works for thee what we call the vision side engineers like common
engineer battalion is one common engineer platoon is attached to and impetration and then you kind of break it down so one squad of that platoon goes with each company round and
then one team goes with the platoon see find a help that put to n out ah you're just pretty much attached to them the entire time sir when you guys are doing these clearances of
light of let's say a big field they would be a apotomios tone and you would be doing all all the sweeping yet so it be of recarpeted or a squaw is to be a square sainteville alida
we got on a squat petrol troth there they would set up security on the area and they would just wait and then that you be me and one other guy and we would sweep and sometimes we
would have one of the impetus have a etooelle ignoration of nayword you when you find cash is would you has blown in place or would you recover it i guess it would depend we would
take pictures of what we found so we could write the report when we got back and if it was out in the middle of nowhere and loved the time they would they would bow in a place it
we have to wait for your de they would let us do it ah that's that's actually really jacked in so seeds so get had heard only one heard on it for the forty orgies to the entire
battalion and not to mention that the fun part fell can i have i i know how but it used to back in nice to thousand five come in innes were doing all that all the time and his lay
it out epithetical dead dated with a stick to see for rosalao know what the is because the war it's wrote down here you ten minutes on we wore close down all of a sudden people
start putting the rules regulations and the highway in a week and every ideation is that same thing we had the heaviest of i'm sure when you guys were in remade just had the
standard flattest you only had this for diculous turtle shell front satis back at beside sappies and pretext or growing protector everything but protector like it was just to the
vest itself a seventy pounds is a metrofon interesting about that on we are emotion had that in everyone wanted it agathe did their best i remember actually ah the colonel brigade
coming down and bringing side sappy plates a down to combat out post to hand him out to guide because everybody be wanted him they wanted the neck protectors the shoulder
protectors to growing protectors they wanted everything yet i mean most all of many guys just pay you know especially your sitting in a turret or yale load me up i want all that
the neck they wanted it all yes because it was norland then go try and do it on a house with it yet i don't have that parts not tubuto so it's i that same thing where they're just
comin up with all the safety rules and you have to have your helmet gloves i protection on it all times when you outside the wire so for whatever reason they didn't let us blow it
up now we'd have to wait for your deed to come out and then they would either blow it up there if it was out in ballinore but if it was in the city they would usually take it
somewhere and and meanwhile the rest of the combination but tallien or out to helping with the building restructure building schools help a levitation stuff like that it would
depend a yet so whatever that platoon that they were attached to his doing they did be doing that and then every now and then if they needed all of us back to build up in our
racily station they would call it body in or everybody but a couple of guys in and we'd all go out at the petunia that drowned but i spent most of my time just doin the cash
sweeping and going as a trasiena put to nor certain people designated as like mine reapers or is every one get trained in owerby shoveled it dogteam how can you kept it in a cause
you've all entered for that use to day again it yes i mean and my fire team i was more my squad was kind of we didn't want to do the construction suffuse we not i was more an i
wasn't great a constricted swing a hammer but you know i wasn't like good at it ah and so we kind of tried to put ourselves in positions where we wouldn't have to go do that stuff
very wearied to always be out with felicite squaws with the bacons as often as we could so we could avoid the construction stuff but an ye that what i wanted to be down here the
are patrol ye actly so that suited deployment you come home and you had already graduated from college this point right yeah answer you come home and i won't what happens when you
home so ariane when you get home when i get home well so we were in iraq and my buddy uh ronie and daniel we were all drinking melitta was not what we wanted unowhat the good
thing is when you're drinking that's where you make your best military discernment what thing in your career but i as we are is it the goat that was not what we were hoping it
would be ah we wanted to do sufficing you sucking ah so you are like we got a figure out a way to go to afghanistan and so we started trying to look up causeth reserve so
sometimes there is there's programs where you can be an augmentative ual amenti did you ever civilian job at this point i didn't cause i degradate college we distragted college a
toyotomi than you ahome and i your saint or a word how do i get back on how i had a real fight i had twenty five thousand bucks for the place so i bought a motor cycle you know to
another attending investment to a long term in man emigrates to but yes i was lookin at it looking for a job to tie me over and shook trying everything i could to go to
afghanistan but luckily it's pretty surely after you got back we go to drill a company says said volunteer lietenant an and loom right here causant was heating up with her or if
you remember but but we have sowed to wait about eight and nine months before her we went to the work up for that so i just took a job putting out traffic counters let little to
arousable electron box to its sides to a job doing that to be tired related to a desert little bit and is on the side of road or a shiryo a remote that i just got in shape and
parted now did you did you do more drill once you're a getting ready to deploy a yeah what a so when i say drill i guess i should explain said that's the the deal for reserves
stego in ver gorean one week end of my satire that called the gallia they asked a late that at all when you're goin to deploy yes the conde they contacted the drills that you do
based on what what she got a need of coming so i do recall we did a couple where we would do go a go do a like an i d training a section and then we would since i had experienced
now we would just take whatever at drill who just start train on the other the new guys that were going to be gone with us on machineguns metal detectors and just trinketing them
trained up but yet so a lot of the training was kind of honour own cause you only get that one week and a month the only have so much money and they have to train the whole
company as posest alison's going grew so is a indiecitos how far before the pointed victoriouse you can do some flegetonte real training we so we did at we actually managed to get
a month at camplaine a curous bay which is the common engineer a school and so we did manage to get up a month long school of the odostomia a refreshment ah more i d soft petrol
practice you know to do in all sorts of trainlike that and then your work up as pretty much just how overlong and takes a domabile with your battalion and then may be lomont
before that gerames maybe three months tollere you're going to yeni you ask that can only weather feoon god it and were you ah what he a agusto to one pitoni's going one puttin
one put in as even a full etelesthe squats okay samius that total it was actually even short squat too so it was the methink each there was a fair to nine ten eleven pursuade
associated iraine three for the the brass of the buttonhole when you go you do your desert grilland everyone's unified in the new d leave before that and then then you and then
you going to pointments so they give you a little bit of a the other give you a little bit leave before you ah after go over some place for five days so i by flies home and then
dondindac so now you show of an afternoon and what's it how's that different for my rack when you get there you know what the first portion of it was not that different um the
train was lowdien solander you where you first go so ah in afghanistan we were in we start i was i to powitt ree seven as an attachment thratin seventh bringaret and we were in
delaroche thumpetty sure it was in helmanoff kindred on the border something i don't recall exactly but and pretty much key locman was the company that my squaw was attached to
and they got sent out just in the middle of nowhere am to a fob and then they had a patrol bay that was even smaller even even further out that i got sent to i was a team later
and so usually you would have one team in the one spot on ominate spot but as we are kind of short on guise this pretty much i was the only engineer for that put tone and yet so
we were in delora and so and how benita was urban everything was ever walking through a city everything was urbane but afghanistan was just far in what when you got out to this
ford base or he you were you guys dorothea was the waste for you from that you are tached to do it out there a patrolling so it was kind of similar aswhasay wasn't a whole lot
different from iraq as we were basically this interacting with the local populace a fine neat they needed providing security for that area like they had a bazaar that would come
every week end so we go out provide security for that and so i was still using my medietate or to clear danger areas if we can there is a lot of ways out there so we'd have to
fondle through the way so i checked that am pooten were you were you finding a use imagine refinement i did find a one on her now there was it was a pretty pacified area i think
we had one fire fight that one of the squaws got into litium so so you first part of the devonian how long was that how long was that part of an appointment that was two and a
half three months i think so this kind of like a little too not right and then we pass that area off to the georgia army and that's when moved to saying into to take over from the
brit and now saying in an laeta's helm in province has an tole i mean again at that set it the taste be central to ah yes and you wessons you get em around here did you feel when
you on the round we know ye i mean we we can't git a push into that area before he actually moved out there and we knew sitas getting real when we ah they just they're like pack
up a pack and we got on the helicopter and they displeasour and disrobed as off in the middle of absolutely nowhere and we do start a walking is leave your pack here and start
walking that way and just just basically just taken territory from the tall bin here did you do yes do a thorough turn over with the breaths i wasn't a part of that but not rome
we've we pretty much came into fabien and were there for a day dandaff and unebriate gone no no we only might mean and then ye pushed out so the rest where there where you were
when you were there on the gate were both at the same time at probably the head quarters elements were doing a turnover yet they were like he were ginory's overstated pushing
immediately and we had a couple wilmarth us and some british army or the thing they had a small or maybe a toe that we didn't have so like units that we we need to from them they
would send out at a and they were great um but i from what i understood they just didn't have the man power to really do much were they the guys that were with you with awe when
they give you any turn alverton like hey you need to look out for this ay this was going on here no ornieres ive any cause i you i diden't think they really went out much so i
don't not really sure how much of the really could have told us in a bell what was outside of the petrol bases and i never i don't even remember i think we may have talked to
their common intoned we got some demaroni hecamede horn they gave it to us and that's about it here and that's because they were just completely under manned he at the from what i
understand i mean i obviously i'm not a part of the uperetein there and stuff but i think that's the reason they distese up a tomasite have the petrol bases but they pretty much
he sat there and got an it and got shot at every day he did do all of petrol sir furious roll in and the the like the broad strategise on start move in from petrolite put out
taking other compound secure it and then operate out of there for a while and then pushed poor shea forty much as take the tall bands territory um by going out clearing a compound
that's what a major part of what i was doing it on this push was clearing compounds to shecase there above trap and then we are we take over that compound sandbagged up knocked
down some trees and some explosives great those fields of fire and then once i was set up cerdine patrols security patrols and then repeat crawleys get in contact with the towel
band entrain they were pretty much sonatas most days ordering us most days not very accurate um but yet they were shoot nicety said we we we would go on up a rose she at us em but
they're always so from way far away and you know we shoot back but it wasn't like further on in the deployment when the corn when the corn grew a lot taller i wasn't therefore
cause i got hurt by them but ah that was when they were like people were shooting at each other in the corn field in five feet away do so but but while you were there it was more
distant really far distant contact the while guy taken a casualties i think not not time i mean a obviously every one is a major marser fice but ah there was one sniper that got
killed a on the initial push of unmusical before we even got to singin and besides that i don't remember oh my body runneth in the face of the piece of our pg ah didn't go home he
decided to go get a taking care of so mineself like that but yes that understuff me happens with stuff is going a ungelind by the way that little pieces happily know that thing
can kill you just as ease gansio know a full piece our trapping wettings eye e exactly em but i would say so sir you're you're like now every patrol you guys are going out is like
hey now how often are you finding a gestapo not tones am tryin to think anne we now and then not very often i mean because the ice i think the area that we were in initially was
still pretty close to the main fobia you went out there are be uh just feels of em and the way that we were getting out to the the patrobas were weares miklas and so that was
metagami a lot of the searching that we would have had to do um so in that initial area were at finding tons is every every now and then in a wide i don't know if this is right in
out you know what the closer you get to a fob you have security on the fog you have guys that are looking out sir lahore for someone to come in in and dig out and put in nice any
moron so you you got some level of security around the fops most the time ye see there could be some their pretty sisting and um day to day life on what are you guys are you as an
marese you guys get in show what's what's going on day to day life then i lately at em right so that's some point during the deployment we start on mars and you know i like him
are mother were good your sick i i do so like him am areas when i was like twenty two and then aoidon sumai didn't i didn't mind him too much but then when we started doing these
bushes we got these things called first strike rations like the new mariners the problem with these first rate they were cassimere first got first week their awesome but the
marine correy decided it would be good to by three different meals friend kind of at the same time we had outrun our water supplying her sweer di stopping off it wells and guess
what nobody can appear fing stuff to you ah so we are des drinking well water man obviously what you had expect to happen happened everybody was getting sick jesira forming that's
crazy no purification cabs or in one guess mad they didn't expect us to need to use well but the first day everybody ran out of water by the by the time of the we ended we like
wealth we dis cotago get well water isn't that crazy up here for cushion pill is like some talk and you echolike it said little tiny thing we you can carry him so easily and they
completely changed the game but you can take out water out of the well or stream has got whatever back to your own it put that bill put that thing in their shake it up you're good
to go doesn't taste if i know not really i'm not related if you use in camping the as i in tablethe and you can also bring a filter like what i hate i bring a filter which like no
plant of britain no not a breath you know he pities bout that little pantouflia is and how long are you guys going out the field for um let's see the first push in a class about
two weeks and so we just ye walk for two weeks we walked to a compound stop for the day said carty spend the night walked the next one if they shoot at us fight back kill whatever
do whether we got to do and then we diskit pushing out and pushing out and that eventually we got to a point in that first musicales were of what a reason they just they say or it
are you going to walk the hack said make i think maybe our ah i think maybe our battalion commander had actually he been a little bit too aggressive and had gone beyond his limits
that his boss one in the dorso we ended up having to give up territory we had just taken and yes if that was two weeks but then once we got to sing in it was pretty much spended
day doing the push take the compounds and you kind of in the company you disconto and you come back so we weren't really out in the field roller ah for all that long but you know
being in a combat stole not exactly luxury where restore her showers eneas not the cone casot defayal right man an i'm goin to talk about a regular journal here cause obviously on
one of these a patrols he got hit and here's what you wrote about it you things happened simultaneously when whatever explosive device that hit me exploded first to shock wave cut
through my toes severing them it didn't slow as it cut through my shins severing them next it sent dirk dread and shrapnel upward into my legs but a and any other part of my body
that was exposed next at launched me a few feet into the air and deposited me on to the ground on the conscious blood was pouring out of the new open artery and into the dirt
muscle and bone dangled from the remnants of my legs vicious bacteria latched on and invaded through the note new openings the dust rose and settled and i woke up the first ten
seconds after waking up all i could hear were my own screens all i could see with a blurry tunnel looking up to the sky the weird thing about the screams was that my brain wasn't
telling my body to produce them it was almost as if my mind was no longer present and my body was just reacting or more like panicking there were the kind of streams that are
emitted from a person regardless of the consideration of the personal pride that the person has no matter how much their pride makes them resist crying out they don't have a
choice in the matter they inhale too long for of air open their mouth as wide as it will go and expel that air with full force producing a scream that pierces the air and change
is pitch with no control as seconds clicked away my mind started to come back on mine and my body came down i stopped screaming and my other senses returned i smell dust and the
unique chemical spell of the recent explosion i tasted on my tongue and in my throat after that my feeling came back it wasn't so much pain as one would imagine it but more like
my lower legs and fallen asleep for so long that it hurt except magnified by fifty times i knew that they were gone but how much i had decided before i left on this deployment
that i could live with below the knee amputations but anything higher than that no frank i'd rather bleed out i could hear keith johnston telling me that they were coming for me
and soon he and shane out well were over me applying turned to the bleeding stumps that used to be legs i mustered up the courage to look at my hands in tact i moved them downward
to check on something vastly more important the numbness i felt down there left me on sure of its status just kill me i croaked out the nord me of course said kept telling me how
everything was going to be okay there were holding my hands as the coromandel over me and delivered the sweet sweet more of pine that made it all better come man i said again i
don't want to live like this i think my dick is gone your dig is still there man do you want me to touch it johnson asked i chuckled with relief as i replied no i asked whether
the log legs were gone above or below the knee i was reassured to hear that both were a few inches below by this time i was high from the more fiend and was saying everything that
crossed my mind as the corning continued to work and we waited for the ten line castac be called in i thought about all the things i wouldn't be doing any more i thought about
playing racket ball i thought about working out in the gym i thought about being in a wheel chair for the next fifty years i never thought about how his breeding bleeding
profusely from two major arteries and could die i never once thought i would die which may seem unusual for a person in my position naturally optimistic i suppose although it is
hard to claim that i was being optimistic considering i wanted to cash out permanently in my defence i had no idea what life was like as an apt and if i had back then i wouldn't
have made that request either way i'm glad i stuck around around this time i decided to sit up and take a look at the damage i took a deep breath and gulped i slowly started
sitting up when i got to the point where going further would reveal my shredded legs i had a change of heart i didn't see the blood soaked dirt i didn't see the disjointed lower
parts of my caps and shins along with my feet or the jagged edge of my remaining limbs the skin roughly burned and shorn the bone sticking out than the rip muscle dangling along
the ground i didn't want that image to be inside of my head because i knew it would be one that i would never be able to forget i deeply regret the fact that there are those that
i consider friends that were forced to have that image in their mind and will have to live with with it for their entire lives secondly i was afraid of seeing the wound would make
it hurt even more much like a scrape me as a child i laid back down and let the morphine keep doing its job i started getting sleepy i just wanted to close my eyes i thought maybe
if i closed my eyes i would pass away easily slap at wells hand slapped my cheek as a yeldham to stay awake just let me sleep just let me sleep by mumbled closing my asagai
another slap that was the last time i did that finally the stretcher that was going to carry me out arrived for strong men lifted me on to it grabben of the handles and started
carrying me to an assault reechoing they were carrying me away from the war i volunteered to participate in and the marines the was supposed to be leading and protecting they
would have to go on without me all because i had failed in my job failed to find the aid that i knew was somewhere around us that failure was a hard pill to swallow then and it
remained so to this day i didn't feel good about leaving them behind but i knew they would understand i knew they would be okay without me we got to the assault breacher vehicle
and i asked jimmy good in one last time to put me out of my misery after his refusal that was the last time i ever contemplated excepting that avenue they slid me into the back of
the vehicle and with some marines i had never met whose face as i can remember seeing but don't remember any of their features the corman said he was going to give me something to
put me to sleep and i finally got to close my eyes as everything went black you precor about what happened i remember pretty lucidly surprisingly ye i don't know ben i i was i
think i was unconsistent seconds i would ask the mate because they hadn't even they hadn't gotten to me by the time i woke up and i don't think they would have spent a whole lot
of time were i think one of my guise might have cleared over to me but i i i don't know um kind awash i had thought of some better to say like the god me boys for average less
moreever load a really coolest moment ye and scrapped ye ego with justin casts a critical point oh may no i was i went thought of some better than food modulates an oh gee you
know lastly more important i i see something fast we were more important but the interesting thing about they said i was a below the knee and so a lot of the times what happened
you might be below the knee and sight of injury but i i said infection that dirt over there is nasty were not used to their bacteria it'll get in there i will in fact and they
have to end up chopping you off higher to save your life because of the the vexes or sonoro able and also if they don't have viable tissue bones and muscles that they can stop in
such a way that you can put a prosthetic on there though does cut you off where at the next you know viable spot rory it and am i his canoe like you you know you we had to have
known or you get you know this is a possibility right inter over there how much did you think about that possibility i suprised the same thing as when you were going to herminie
know everybody knows you couldn't you could die you can get killed there lies not goin to be me derision happen ye ah but you canna have to do that don't show me if you if you if
i'm sitting there sweeping and i'm taking in okyo's could be at every step almacan be a active others got to be whether people refer to it the way i refer to a like the idea of
detachment and your dislike nominating about that everybody must be doing that cause otherwise you'd go freak in crazy the like if you were just thinking this next step could be
the one i don't you do you never be able to take a state said angela then you go out there on tony seat marines and soldiers and moselles that bear no eros doing their job yes
just completely setting that fear aside and said okay that's possibility cool i don't have time to worry about that right now i'm going to get it done but ah i have i made a dark
joke before i went to havana i did this five cave with a body he set rawer going to do it again when when we get back from again when you get back from afghanistan was like except
you're going to be poor me in a rickshaw cause i'm going to both my legs blown off he has yet to pull me in the rickshaw monotonous and i had i to abel a fate or whatever i don't
know what what i get i don't know what the anglais bad humor at a we call that a wit be not that is a that is a way you deal with these things right oh i don't mean like a but we
were kind of talking about in the car over here just like sick humour that you end up with in the military because you have to take that thought which is in your head but i got to
be in your head so what do you do with it are you going to let it like burden you down and make you inoperable and make you not be old to do your job are you nor you know what are
make a joke about it and an hatstore going to get food is so more than anything else a actually great i should have a bad here useta great everitt's or got a humour that not sweet
let all the time ye you know all the time from guys from my heels were ridiculous i guysers mean the sickest sense of humour you could imagine and but yet the same thing with the
soldiers and there wasn't even there's no barrier like there's no verirrt six sense of humor when you're in the military it's just like ver and you're allowed pretty much to say
it a cross services you know you can make a joke to veritade about something and then they are not going to bet they're not gonna be offended by it it's goin everyone's got that
same twisted sense of humor that really have you think about it were all probably using to cope with you know the the fact that these bad things might happen ye think i thought
then i triumph wonder why they say you know laughter is the best medicine and white so true and i think it it acts to normal lies your situation so you how you're about to try and
dead lift like a thousand pounds anfuso like that he found that a furtrader life dat thousand pounds and your sitting there going there's no way men dead lithuanians you're going
to go up to an onset to the ground in that pre determine self preach rumination birth and so if you're sitting there it say after i got hurt and i'm sitting there going this is
the worst thing to ever happen this socks i hate this it's so serious it's such a big deal then yet it becomes the worst thing that ever happened and i just kind of get into that
groove but if you can make a joke about it it kind of makes fun of it so it's not as serious and so when something not as serious or not as big dear you make fun of something it
kind o becomes normal to you and a little bit easier too to accept like if you saw if i saw my danster crack smile at any point even like tistifying like that then they
automatically lose their their persons evito can tell sometimes they are getting rayograph smile in the gloomey just walk in one would have to just walk away side in the i think
that that's probably why you have to maintain a humour in order survive you really do so i said no doubt about that i also am going back to your journal here it took me five days
to make it from the dusty uncomfortable blast crater after ani san to a stare on comfortable hospital bed in the eyes you at the national naval medical center of betasseled
luckily for me i was much too high on what's that dil adored dilli daoud it elated elated her to notice the bed or the trip my amputation could start out below the knee but
somewhere during the three hospital stops along the way the need rose for the remaining portions below my knees to be taken off a lot of the time this is due to infections that
are picked up from the dirt afghanistan or maybe there wasn't much that existed below the knees to keep to make keeping them viable on the bright side however the stumps that were
remaining were of a significant length for an above knee amputation i was left with the entire fever on my left leg and only a few into shy on my right leg i found it funny that
throughout my entire hospital stay the remainder of my legs were always referred to its stumps by the medical staff i had expected a more elegant term considering the fact that
this was a hospital at the same time however i enjoyed the casual nature of the word stump and even considered naming them at one point later when perusing my medical records i
found the elegant term i had been looking for residual limb along with the major injuries as his stained i also had a few minor injuries i used the term minor loosely here seeing
as how these minor injuries would be considered major if they weren't sustained in tandem with the severing of one's lower legs starting from the lower person portions first i
lost a portion of the muscles making up the inner part of my right fight in order to close that wound i would require a skin graft taken from the skin of my left fin my bodicote
or sustained several large wounds from shrapnel some close to the printer but mostly in the more meditates that was okay though i have always had an extra but muscle to go around
the close proximity of these wounds to the working parts that digests digestive system resulted in the doctor's diverting my intestines to close to me bag that came through my
abdon more area the reason for doing this wasn't because of any damage the intestines but because the doctors wanted to make sure that the large wounds of my but didn't get
infected as for upper body injuries i had some mind of burns to my hands and two totally perforated ear drums the hands were keel in my ear drums would be replaced with cartilage
i consider myself extremely lucky that i still have all ten fingers in perfect working condition my eyes and most significantly a brain that made it through the blast we only
grade three concussion and no residual traumatic brain injuries while i may face hardships and have some sort of discomfort constantly throughout the day as a result of wearing
prosthetics at least a dozen or hurt i don't have constant pain constant pain is much more harrowing is a much more harrowing plight than mine and i can't imagine how hard it is
to withstand i spent my first week at ease in the intensive care unit i had a tube down my throat one two going into my arm a breathing to been my nose a calf at her padmani my
heart rate and epidemy lower spine and a wire for my pain button both my hands were rapping gods from my burns my legs were also wrapping gaze along with having wound back
machines attached them to suck out excess fluids leaking from my wounds my rear and had a pad of gauze for the wounds there the incision down the centre of my abs used from her
closely had been staled back together and the bottom part parts of my stumps were it where the skin was reconnected were stitched together man like a you know you just you exist
piling all that other stuff on too and it just like you said you you lost your legs in your life oh you know that's pretty much what league me i focus oh you all is legs you know
obviously freak in horrible and then you don't elaeolite me i'm not thinking about all these other injuries that your sustaining at all the medical things that have to happen to
get that stuff straightened out yet i mane one of those just like the havenant or less right now any one of those be major but there is pretty much nothing compared to the actual
major thing that happened in in your just so are you just a drug up at this point he ah that first week i mean yes is dilated has hallucinations and that kind of thing and
surgeries am i would holloa nasty things like being hit by a mortar see a my leg splattered for what ive rise my mom was there ah and then i can recall for the first couple of
weeks every now and then i don't know how to describe with something what happened you felt explosions before on this kind of that when the shock wave goes three you and he kind o
feel your brain contador a little bit and i would kind of feel that and then for a split second i would kind of it would be like i was getting hit by an explosion for a split
second in like that and i'd be like to night is the just pass out or something good now i like what is that so then but that any now that her kind of way i have like mental after
a shock or yell i yet on now what it was it i asked the doctors about at the said room i never unto'w what that is but luckily it went away and after maybe i had some to do with
the the drugs i onbust you know eventually you get used to that you body contains the depot it and you get your senses back and hard to look at a computer screen for the first
couple of weeks still but eventually i would see ants crawling on me ah but yet you know so eventually all that kind o goes away and you do stuck with you little button for pain i
i remember the you can only hit thought that all i let you hit it every three four or five minutes or something like that and they would come in during the first little bit and
they would say you know you can only hit that thing like twelve times in a minute right said an they say will you hit it bout a hundred and ten times in the last hour i like well
i'll be i cause i'd be kind o like paneled in that i hated to i know make sure i extract that i i i sid this head it again and so he and i but eventually kind o got used to it
than the paint sarto go away i am senesino by like i've been hospitalized a couple of times for a couple of different surgeries and at a complete posty high was you know in their
like all this ere you know and i had you this is this is true you know repair something like i had here operation i had exurere like these planned operations he the openings in my
body were made by a high les skilled surgeon and on the helical this socks solanaceae what you have is like a thousand times a thousand times worse and as it's it's hard even
imagine and it on top of this i'm going back to generally or to top it all off i had my pirate hat on my hat i was practically being held together by doc tape like an old
dilapidated chair your trying to get wanderoo good year out of what upthtairth had well so you're not supposed to wake up when you go through germany so basically you go from
sight of injury to camp leather neck to bagamayo ce base to launch all germany to the theft maryland for marines and then discuss rate to wallered for anybody else marines and
sailors go to tessa and so peter is not wake up in germany for my fifteen twenty minutes and my squad leader was there oh he was there for some miles at armour what it was in her
for but so he was there i ahkoond me what happened and that kind of thing and i disc i could help but think even though its super drug out like my mom as get a note she's going to
be sad and so all i could think of a most trying to crack a joke or whatever so i was like see ye can see i can find of funny hawthwaite wasand he go to find one presented not
goin to have funny hats and all boletiere went low i guess maybe just went outside the room on a good financecompany an ah bahram has a lot of thing nor germany as at things but i
may be not a funny at dorso couldn't find one i get to a sea and when you get to the hospital they pick you up from wherever they fight you into in these big basically semi
tractor trailer hose ambulances and they they have they they learnt the hospital were come in were going to be there two pm and all the doctors come down they rush in ah do what
you need to do and so a lot of the times that's where families will see there there are servicemen when they first get back when they're unloading in they give him kind o you know
fifteen twenty seconds the theodose and then they take you off and i don't know how it happened but i'm rolling down the thing and there's my mom she has this pirate had in an
enlai don't know if somehow they got word back to hers to toko then or no i haven't i think i think somebody else brought it or her i don't think she brought about i don't know
why they would have brought me a pirate at the last somebody had found out that i had asked for a supposed stupid had or something as i have i've never been known to wear hoolihan
had your steed has before so there my mom was a stupid hat and then so i kind o became a theme a pecul bring me a stupid head when they came and visited me so i had a big bag
erebus i guess what happened will you know i hope that kind of helped by a ease the pain a little bit for my mom in that initial that initial a meeting a maybe a little bit but oh
i don't know so when you spend how long you and are you in like ice you forward a trying to get you more stable eyes i prithee for about a week and then he moved up to the fifth
floor of forhooit l which is kind o where they put all the empties and their actually three joneses there the time so the nurses had to be very careful and on top of that my i'm
jones far are first to initials my body you got hit may be an hour before me his name is jones did and then the third jones was jones j j t so they had to be on it there the what
check in what medicates are going to to who he but yes so that you go for the visor and that's kind o where you start to become lucitanus where the physical therapist artacoana
and that's where once your condored like you start just lift in a way one ten times as lift your stumpiness that in your journal where was like exhausting for you yet and it hurt
and what's making it is it cause you been layin there for so long as because it a movement that you haven't been able to do it while i i'll just all the above how would imagine a
lot of that stuff down there is a swollen and painful you know that i think that's probably what i will be and so he ahuro bad to steven move it at all and so they start with that
and then eventually you get your wheel chair and it takes about ten minutes for you to get into will chair and take out the four people to get you an your wheel chair go dislike
sliding off and you just so sore but no eventually you get better in like could you i made a big deal about the first day that i got my wheel chair by myself and then i would go
for little rolls around the the floor and some boy would have to like wheeled my ah my little id pole and i have to hang my cat that ere bag on the hat would so scared as so like
watch that too she not let that tobe get caught in any thing ocean so you would i would dido a few laps around the ward get out and then when i was done i give his my buddy daniel
consecutio get out of bed yet cause he had a i don't i don't know why you can get out of bed but he couldn't get out of bed side yonis room and hang out for a little while so then
and and in how long is it before you're thinking yourself okay or what made you start thinking but went this is my game plan the war i'm going to like you see guys that are
further along the process and you say okay i see what that guy's doing you know i am in to do that too well i said to little ah i fon message to daniel who has stood down in the
still one fit for my buddy took alone watched say something done and so i said listen first step make a work out programme to get back to where we were before to get on our feet
again so i was immediatlie we are going to testwork out and we're going to get better and you know it so they don't do a whole lot of prosthetics at the festa will they do now am
but they didn't back then and so the nurses would kind to have a general idea of how the prosthetic stuff when the physical therapist would know but the major thing was the visit
from walter ed so the wood ivory battalion people would bring people that were further along in their recovery over to visit the guys of just been freshly wounded and so i got one
of those visits i don't remember there being a double above the knee put that came to the same that was in legs yet but they had a better idea and they would say look you know
you're going to get over there and you're going to get your prosthetics an you're goin to be the walking in you're going to be able to run you can be able to do this and that and
so the at that point what now so not in a i don't have to be in a wheel chair for ever oh okay you know so it was about at that point a ben wore to a how did you develop your work
out program well ah once i became loosed i was doing pull up some my low triangle you know how they had no triangle thing anyone down started getting after and i wasn't to do it
while with the doing pull up i was priding like a horizontal rod or something and i was just like lifting myself up whenever the physical therapist couldn't come in and do her
stuff with me i was a aronson to do i pull myself up on this thing and still that was i and i kind of i went off the fair pits um experience for the formost of it and that in the
beginning until i kind of got on my own because i don't nother they've been doing this for nine years at that point so they had a lot of drills and strength in exercises that i
can do and and that kind of thing for discontent them take the reins and as to whatever they said and then did it again um but then once i got to a point where i was we kind of
let where you see men on walking around and no problem that's one i started venturing into trying to do regular gemstone vented my own way of doing straight like dead leaves so
it's i strap myself to a pole i set it down to ask leaned down and i do straight like dead left as a pootian squat bird or down oh i thought this was a really cool and a party or
journal that you wrote and your talking about get in through that kind of stuff sir he regato the journal is easy to be motivated to succeed in the beginning of an endeavor and
when you are close to the end the most difficult part and the part where people quit is when they are in the thick of it and it is unclear whether they have the strength and
stamina to make it the rest of the way while i never actually doubted my ability to walk again during my recovery i am certainly subject to the inner monologue rationalizing quite
as a kataki or do not push myself to the gold and i have written down on paper one way i have recognized it aid in shutting that monologue the fock up is celebrating my stones the
hardest part of working toward a goal is when we are either making slow progress or negative progress and having the patience and confidence to know that the improvements we make
over the long periods as opposed to the short periods are what matter milestones are what remind us that we are making progress even if it isn't a parent every day in rowing i've
heard of people that count strokes until the finish line using sets of ten personally i like to count two fifty four making up a race when i ran the nations try athlone i picked
points ahead of me to make it too and when i got there i'd pick a new point a thing we can use to keep our minds from succumbing to the monologue will work not only in shirt short
term goals but also in long term goals like graduating from college or learning to use prosthetics grate advice for anybody that they attention to now you mention rowing there so
this was no like a week end road that you decided to do this so you got after it yet he had that come about am so ill as is looking for that work out program i knew at this point
i'm alive i mine still trying to have the best life possible and so i'm trying to get back what i what i lost so speak and i used to like work an out and go into the gym yet after
it and so i'm in sitting there going well what's the new what's another way that i can work out now am an so i started looking up i forget when i looked up and to sable sports or
to save beworkin dole something and go go getting after goathland so the paralytic comes up i eliasaph now the olympics on now the paralytics that like the special and pigs and
the insect wisions now and so the paralytic is the olympics for disabled people to be with disabilities say i i fit into that category but see what sport they got and i saw they
have rowing i so well you know what i used so i used to hit the roof machine when i was working out m getting on the concept to yet the concept to doing some spring on that thing
that was pretty tough i want something that stuff so i was like you know well see me look into this rowing thing and may be all may be ll make the perlice one day and this is what
i would scottsville i would a second week end of butrinto real strong point in the pinetrees got save yourself a gold right away she are you have the sum you work in doors that
you just you now tread water ah and so you and i go out a thing so into place a there was a i pradt go out and try and learn to row on the water until the next year so i was my
main focus at that point was still learning the proces getting my strength back but once i contigit my strength back and i was i felt like i was ready to move on kind of outside
of the therapy ah angle on it i looked up places where i could learn to row and i mean just so happened there was one and c and so i went down there and i learned and i mean i
don't want to brag but the guy said i was the natural so ah so it won't maybe i can do this and so i convince thee they didn't have romaine in the physical there begin the captain
they had an electrical they had all sorts of cliverly didn't have run machine so i can vince the clinic whoever was run in the clinic take get of rolling machine for me so i could
row and then when i was trained for the necessarily convinced them to let me bring my bike in in and ride my bike in the clinic so i had my own costabili my own game inside the
gem and i convince him to get a cattle bell for me and suffer and so i convinced them to let me ah let me have that roe machine and so a couple of times a week i would go down to
the water and train on the water the other times i would just do some spring on the on the row machine and then it is kind of kept like i've getten better and better and this was
twenty thou though two thousand eleven so the paralysation twelve and i was here there like a specific coach then that runs the the the rowing team there isn't in some sports
there are there's like there's a head coat as in charge of everybody in hell train everybody ah but for my category and parletorio it's pretty much i find your own coach and you
show it this race and if you win that race than you represent america and all the races for that year den how far is the row is a thousand meters sir what is that like it takes
you what couple of minutes three minutes ah so rowing trunken arms only o my category so it would take me my best ever time on the eras product three thirty eight i think um and
that's a pullet out yet for me your yeah ah and then on the water the best in a double so to people um my category have to have two people in the boat was this a rat around four
minutes if you could do four minutes then you had a shot at winning and that's a thousand meters so said thousand miners so you are ambulavero on the water and you say it's four
minutes he said he had to for minutes so it second got complete god jack at it its equivalent of sprinting like a the mile yet cause you're going for minutes right the ermile
minit's it's no joke it's a it's a tough the tough tougher as an where was the paraliticos il parle bas were in london and to thousand twelve and so i was just getting ready for
that i was getting ready to retire and eat something to do too and just so happened that my coach that at the time knew somebody else into this the other coach i had a female that
was a looking for a partner also a double above the mud and so my boat class is one guy one girl and so we met up rode together looked like we were pretty good pair and once i
retired moved down to florida start training for the parlins e how are you have to train so i got out in late december the secolo january first and i we had the the paralytical
september second or september third roared decent chunk of time but he could nine months of crushing yourself of ye train a twice a day every day or twice a day six days a week
take off sunday and just sprint see now technique a lotten ah yes the aftertone in the water her i mean you can do it outside the water a little bit but really you got a practice
you technique in in the water a series like jugoro to it doesn't matter if you if you're doing like a in an a fake fake an aria he had it doesn't really have the same effect
unless you're doing in the real thing or so you get to england and boom yeho many races is the renegade is a just one race not luckily there's a couple of races so we had to do in
the trials rice or cat which was i find out who represented america will on that then we had to go qualify our boat for the parlin e and so we had to go to serbia about a may be a
month after when in the trials to qualify the boats we won that race qualified our boat and then parlent exshaw up and you do your heat and then if you win that he show her both
are heat as six been one there were twelve boats till six and each eat two or so if you wit that heat you automatically go to the final if you don't win that heat you got to go
it's called the reprocha stands for second chance in french and ah you have to come first or second in that so we want our repast we lost our head to the chinese which still makes
me so mad and ah we want or reposing so we were in the final and we started the final and in last and just slowly over the course of the race this was always plain we kin one to
start longbill slowly we just rode in one boat and the next boat on the next boat until we got to the end and were bout six inches between us and the great blithesome team or
everybody's torn for the home team and so third place gets a metal fourth place you don't get anything or you get nothing yet so and were door final sprint and then we crossed the
line and i don't know i i wasn't looking over there my forms were numb i was as trying to hold on to the oars and then it comes up on the little board you know first place china
second place france and then this is his long cockatoo it over there or that it goes third place you say and my old hero and you look at the video it's literally like the lank of
one of his knives murderer ye that close point two point two seconds etwee them and us the abstruse so did you meet you one while you're on that event or haruhiku tell me meteor
or that a bit i'll well am so tell you when we were first got there and we were training we are doing we've go out we pry their good week before and so we go out and train on the
lake and continue our train get used to the area my partner my my rome partner and i were watching the other teams and then there's another boat class called before so it's for
people and i saw this great british form roby and there was this gorgeous blond in the bow of the four i said i bit my lip at the liebestod lookin sick a didn't i never expected
to meet her anything because you know we're not racing against each other and she's from another team and he counted you know until the race is over there got a bee keeping a
professional sure she even though she was so periebat ye and she would see a shell i tell me what back when she told me lies she saw me around outlook cui was the nowise serious
marine corn mode or don't talk to nouronihar oh yelpings over were back in the athletes village it's time to get after a bether cadenette there's a casino outside deathly village
so ah the american continuing goes out to the casino starts were part i'm still at this point i'm still kind of in like serious mode companies to get out of no serious serious
mode and ah still a little bit pshawed lost from the now to china and france even like the two people the two countries that my bodies like don't lose the china refraineth were
taking shots like every two filterer following on at home and they hanoverian have like so early in the mornin ah so we're out there than the the british team comes in for the
just one gold right in there all her all happy so big the only two groups it speak english race so as he outsoar two groups you know kind of end up together it took it took a
while to uh get me to out of my shell the longing i was like you know still kind of all my guard i had this is the first the maybe the second time i've never traveled outside of
america for anything besides to ployment so i had never travelled outside of america but sir be a was the first time england was a second time so his kind of still on my guard
realite bit but they started feed me foster soon light up and then just so half been the the gorgeous blind i saw was there so i you guys know how charming i am to hear a charmer
roll you will let walerothy alcohol help set yet but a charmer and now were married so i otasite four years of long distance relationship because he kept rome she she actually
defended her a gold medal in rio and died again yes garolan so he do he did about a winding get together right away leave we did a long distance for about three years she livening
land outran in america but a finally got her over here for married rennes pam or a well obviously i have a certain affinity for british ladies as wayverne known ah now you mention
real quickly so you were trained for trafton in there somewhere to yes so the people at the clinic it was ah i mean it was a tea effort everybody so they were other other empties
than there and i mean we talk about this little yes they dan canaston nearly be sealth was there for ye harry before he and and perlamentis well yes oh yeah parlyment the biplane
am he was my my idol i guess for when i first got there causeways pretty much done with there be he was about to get out he was walking everywhere on his legs carrying back back
around and he was almost i mean if these acamantis you i mean as long at a tangle above an eye and so i could see him from when i was sustaining in a wheel chair red with a all
right that is it possible they are eisen it with my own dear lives it is possible and so and he's a stud at ye ye if you want us i only want to try and be like anybody ermeline
dierum and so that's kind of thee the environment that they had there a well to read was you could ask somebody that had been there before chips tricks anything like that and so i
saw dan and i was asking him stuff and watching how he did stuff and then eventually he laughed and i kind o noticed you know i am now there's new guys coming in i'm now that
person that has been there and so i need to step into that roll and offer advice and were harder than anybody else in the clinic and show people what's going on and show people
was possible and so the therapist would always be there you owhan to run the army ten miler who wants to do this trap on the always begetting offer the oielus and races because
people love having wonderworkers out there at so they make a big deal that they give but him go off first and everything so yet so an end every time they asked me if i could if i
wasn't do anything else that day but like ye ye'll go and so they're like you wanna do the nations triath longissimi distance straughan and there's like two people doing it and no
other is like a single blow the needy doing it and that's it and you are a double above nempty you want to do it yet i do and she aristaeus it just so happened at the time i was
learning how to ride a bicycle again normal bicycle fishermen how to run a bike my old boatrail awaterin give one of the things that's goin to drive you to push yourself as having
skin in the game having something to lose have something to risk so if you say to everybody in the clinic i am going to do the nations traghan and you don't do it the idiot you're
a loser of what ehow long as that it is a olympic trafton a sendin these swim is fifty hundred meters the bike is forty kilometers and the run is ten cumber sir am luckily for me
because i was not that good as woman luckily for me this wingeance led that year because there was a huge tomasite in the potomac or her so we didn't do the swim but we did the
like and the run and yes so i was what was relearning how to ride a bicycle nobody had ever done that before and the history of watered doubled above the abutting to ride a
bicycle and i had figured out a kind of wonder put it to you seeing i finally figured this thing out eh and so oh what better way to do it then do the nations traphole and so is
like you know ah that to his by fire and in a way and so took me like four hours to do the whole thing did you enjoy it i enjoyed having done it okay i i'm just wondering at one
point you made the brilliant decision that you are going to ride a freaking bicycle across the united states and emeric well which was next what whatever freaking psychotic idea
you got again when i come from i had just learned how to ride the bike and i'm going like i do something with that can't make it to this pointless to learn how a did it now never
got to do it again i you know it might be fun as it's like ride on my bike across the country at some point in my life and this is what i have in my van i'm still in las but i
just learn how to ride the bike i should do soldierin by bite conturier some for some cool like that and i was rowing i didn't do it right o his i i had had made the commitment to
do the rowing rose aliandra but eventually i will do this cross country by ride and so i did another year of rowing after that i i took the time to kundala it out how i wonder to
do it and so i took another year rowing and then finished worshippin ships that yeared fourth um and thought a month later driope started riding is in october i insert was that we
was at all a what was the what it that day to day look like ah so i had a box struck you hole box struck i bought like a used two hundred thousand miles you all box struck check
mutely down some carpets in the back check ah how a couple of cots couple of sleeping bags to syene my little brother who was about to turn eighteen shack a roger up to drive dirt
go that's all you need right there box strong water two cops carpet and a little brother and so you know i didn't really train much by what i did was i made sure that my
prosthetic fit correctly and i was able to ride the biasi really did i didn't you know go out and ride a hundred miles ranting and he kind of formal training for it to cause i
figured on is the point the are the dracut and that beginning to see the training for the finisher he so the day to day would be wake up probably six seven o'clock you know dry
out to wherever i was starting for the day because he couldn't be cant is like stopping the new over us wethalie draw the truck somewhere market in a church parking ladder of
mortepierre line and then a year right don't get apprehended by the cops here your fireside first time so i had won i was right at iterated my bike in the my brother would be kind
o half on half off the rower and i picked a route that we didn't have you know not super busy roads so i wouldn't get in too many people's way until i got so pacific cosway in the
people were supervised and ah it one point this cot the for the first coincon ard pools over in front of us in my arnheim me the stop that rides over and then he gets on his like
i sesheke your hand man i flew agathias how it's going to go the hansom tom going to get the cops love me um an so i wake up start riding probably around seven thirty eight i
might eat breakfast before and am probably ride eh i do thirty miles a day so i just break that up however felt for the day that breaks up in the back of the truck said around for
a while and run i'd ride thirty miles and then wherever i finished thirty miles on my goliba further for better pulling up point stop get in the truck drive off to wherever we
might be able to park the truck and then spend the night in the truck and then ah drive back out to that spot the next day do it again luckily for me a lot of hotel started to
offer as night sleep so i really on this lipetsk for the first month then after that we were mostly in hotels or missus leger six months journey soreino tower at overtoil aside to
the winter tina everhard of the polar vortex hereawa is this fileroient ear at this freezing ah am perture that came down and in my attacked the nation with cold the calanthe
polar forty sounded very arsenious set fire than a shark net of hades at five thousand one hundred eighty miles yet we in the winter time every day for a hundred and eighty days
um talk about forty two in your journal and manorial it it was through it was through the true purpose of the marine corps that i became what i am to day and it is that it is that
and that is the act of fighting the battles of the united states it is through the preparation for and the fighting of america's wars that marines gain their fine edge and an idea
of the true meaning of courage spirit tenacity outerism and brotherhood after having been imbued with the essential qualities ascribed to marines and boot camp it is up to the
individual marine and his leadership all the way from the fire team leader to the commandant to make him the ideal tool for the corps and there is no better place than a war to do
this i was during my two to pointeth i learned what it means to be courageous almost on a daily basis my fellow marines and i would be subjected to situations with high potential
for danger and situations with infinite unnoble possible outcomes the dangerous and unpredictable nature of these conditions listed fear nervousness and uncertainty in all people
however without fail when the time came to strap on our dear and proceed forth individools we did it with no hesitation because it was what we needed to do to me that is courage i
learned it from the example set by my leaders and my compatriots and when it was my turn i endeavoured to teach others by my own example my favorite among the many mantras of the
marine chorus adapting overcome it is my favorite because it embodies the spirit and tenacity that marines must possess in order to be the world's greatest war fighting force to
marines accomplishment of their mission is of the utmost importance above that of their own lives and the ability to adapt and overcome his key the idea is straight forward change
whatever you need to in order to become what is required to transcend an obstacle if there is no bridge over river a marine will swim if there is a wall in front of us we will
blow it apart if there is an enemy on a hill that we want we will remove him marines do not stop until they have accomplished their mission regardless of any monkey wrench that
gets thrown into their plan they will change their plain plan a thousand times if it need be until what needs to be done is done and then they will move on to the next mission it
was these two qualities that kept me that allowed me to keep fighting after hours wounded my plan of accomplishing something with my life and making my life as good as possible
was met with obstacles and monkey wrenches but since i had already learned these lessons by passing these off scales and moving on was easy and natural the brotherhood that the
marines share is the defining feature that initially attracted me to the marine corps and over the course of two deployments i experienced it to its fullness the reason that i was
able to be courageous in a dapanaeron was because the men that stood beside me doing the same thing and it is because we were experiencing war and hardship together that we do
grow close enough that i cared for them more than i cared for myself and would sacrifice my safety for their well being even if it meant being extinguished and othoniel need to be
said i knew this resrection this is a definition of brotherhood and selflessness and from my having been part of such a relationship is why loyal and put others before myself as
if it were a default setting without the marine corps i have no idea where i would be or what i would be like all i can say for sure is that i am what i am now doing large part to
when i was taught and what i experienced during my five years in the marine corn ye also if there is anything that the marine court teaches you it is brotherhood it is in durance
how to endure situations you don't want to have to be him ah whether it's hominun with a pack or fighting in afghanistan a rack or it sitting in the back of a seven ton getting
drenched in rain in the havened up a tent balabac it teaches you those things and so i already do all this stuff i was good at it by the time i became an amputated i got even
better at it once i wasn't an but even more experience and then so that latent being able to endure whatever i had to for the bike ride and i think the slogan slogan for the
wounded warrior regiment and the marine chorus i don't know this is its latin know if it's a pronouncing rights atimaona which is still in the fight and you know i'm not still in
the main fight that's going on in iraq raphana of bientina out of that fight but the over all fight i'm still in that i'm still a representative of america i'm still
representative love marines i am dedicating myself to help my brothers that are struggling or come back wounded i'm still in that portion of the fight and i mean disremembered
that that lovingest stay in the fight to keep fightin crabier stain in the fight in a ihourou gain reading through your journal stuff oh risam an there's a bunch of different
things that i wonder pull out an obviously i can't read the whole damn thing right may be i could but i'll bealtainn the things you most thinking that what he aworkin will be
really helpful other people and i thought that this thing that you roight here was just something that can be used by by anybody especially people out facing tough situations
which as you just mentioned you are pretty damgood at another to situations i think this gives a little insight into that sir here go back to your journal the color rose made
explains the stages by which an individual grief for a lost intimate the five stages are denial anger bargaining depression and acceptance in this case it could be said i was
grieving for myself the former me that had died in saying since i had a natural understanding of conservation of energy and an awareness of the time required to reach my goal i
instinctively skipped the first foresters and proceeded to accept in portion of the process i had decided that to spend my limited energy resources on denial anger bargaining and
depression would be a pointless waste and would be better left off of my itinerary i wanted to be able to expend as much energy as i could toward my goal which would not only
allow me to reach it faster but would improve the quality of my success the sooner i had accepted my situation the sooner i could get to where i wanted to be having one's legs
amputated above the knee is categorically annegato experience if i hadn't had the right mind set afterward the rest rest of my life could have also become a negative experience
fortunately i was able to react on a loss by accepting the negative energy from that occurrence and using it the open doors for myself in order to be sure that my life would
remain a positive experience no matter who you are whether you are healthy or ill injured or able bodied every one's main purpose in life is to make it as good as possible this is
no unchanging objective for all people no matter what happens thus now that i was a double above the knee mut i needed figure out a way to keep my life enjoyable with this in mind
i researched the paralytics to see if i could participate which led to a bronze medal at the two thousand and twelve games not only that i accepted people into my life who have
enriched it beyond what i could have imagined from the experiences associated with sports i have learned lessons that have and will continue to make me a better person lessons
that i can pass on to others in the future it was in this way that i was able to transform the negative experience of having lost a lower part of my legs into the positive
experience and energy of participating in a sport and all that has accompanied it if you are ill or injured use it as a way to discover a new hobby or career if someone is rude to
you and make you angry use the anger to feel the work out if some one you know has a terminal illness use it as an opportunity to make a difference in their life and in the world
the most important part of transforming energy from negative deposit ive is being aware of opportunities as they are presented and having the courage to seize them energy is all
around us constantly feeling and transforming it will affect us in ways we cannot be picinardi be a person that uses energy intelligently instead of wasting it i like to say used
the weight and i kind of analogise it like liftit tree gossipries i to analogies it with maybe like a strict press so the weight on the bar is whatever girlfriend broke up the
watever possible issue your having and you chold that bar in your shoulders and you disleaved it there and eventually stuck to her and then eventually if you leave it there long
enough you must be on the ground with that weight on your chest you can't move any more or when you have that way on the bar and it's on your shoulders you shoulder press it and
they do it again and he do it again and again and then you let your body adapt and next time he trying lift that weight it's nothing you can do that waites i can handle that no
problem and then you can handle you more weight and then when you get good at that you seek out the way you purpose fully try and make things harder for yourself that you can just
become even stronger and even stronger and you embrace that new start to enjoy it a little bit and so i let i think that's what i was trying to say there i think you said and on
onnentisati it but ah he actually our living that current le at this time seeking out more ah i guess maybe i will i will even go so far to say stupid things to day here so the
next challenge that you put in front yourself is the thing that you are about to do right now and i've never heard of a challenge i trust before but you're going to do a month of
marathons ye ah so the things are only stupid a crazy if i fail i right not crazy because i did a lie if i had failed the people could say it's crazy cause i paleness on then it
stupid ah no man how tell you why d you you go on out there and making the things happen you know it's it's awesome whether you finish or not will no matter what you do the fact
that you're put in these hard core challenges in front of yourself is it's it's unbelievable ye see all this stuff that i have written down while a talk a bell although wisdom
i've been able to to gain through my injury and through benethe ring corps i think this the month of marathon's about doeth and everything else that i that i try and do i'm trying
to be an example cause there's so many people out what the wonting to learn the true how to bake again i didn't know anybody that had ever done it before until i saw it by that
had done it and is made everything once you realize it's possible that makes it so much easier because you know it's it can be done and so i want to be an example for people to
look at and they see me and they say well they might not be trying to run thirty one marathon's thirty one days and thirty one different cities or rather bichos the country but
they can say there's a double above any amt that ran thirty one may thoughts in thirty one days i can priego walk on the tread mill so i just want to be an example of that and i
want to be an example of all of these lessons that i've learned a person that uses the weight instead of let it destroy their life somebody that stays in the fight keeps fighting
no matter what that's what i'm trying to do i want to serve to show people what they can do and especially you know wounded veterans and people that might be struggling with what
they saw and you know i'm lucky enough that my mind is clear i had a great three concussion that's it no traumatic brain injury no postomani stress nothing like that and so i want
to show sevillians and veterans like that it is possible to have a tremain experience an come through and be fine and not have none have to suffer from postomani stretch that
disorders you am collating insie these days it's almost becoming expected that you're going to go to war and you're going to come back and so a lot of polight end up seeing wall
i'm supposed to have posterities on goose manifested in myself or they let it get worse or they don't they don't fight it and they just let it happen and so on to be an example of
somebody that uses their experience and it's just goes and has this terrible experience in you know don't make a big deal about it in part of you do that is running thirty one
freak and marrieth one day if so what are you start ah so i'm going to start a intertwined ferent cities and thrones cities on my first city london a london on october twelfth and
then i'm going to fly to philadelphia to maslova it's going to work all run in a city pried take about the whole thing i'll take break stirring during the run so probably the
whole thing will probably take five and a half six hours in one to do all all verdure run in my own just like in a park or on a trail out and backs loops i'll do it on a four
hundred more track if i have to um do that get in my army drive to the next place spend the night there re upgraded from a box trodden with with he got on the back well the wife's
going to be comin along so you want to read all with a bit crew for this when i got my wife panshine might team leader seized she's doing the so much stuff seedtime ter another
thing every job that you could possibly think of she's doing it and my mom is coming sees him a sachet there pica she's goin to marry give him a sane goin to have a driver not my
brother this time i think i blew him out going out first time a loving have a driver and so we're going to ill hap in the arve drive to so from philadelphia to new york run in new
york repeat until i go all the way around i'm going to end november eleven veterans day des son the national mouth and and your goal obviously is to show people and lead people
instead of an amazing example and on top of that you're going to earn you're going to you're going er money yet for some real specific charities that that you believe in and stand
behind and what of those charities yes so my goal my main goal is obviously the to be the example all these kind of grand ah objective but you know how do you really you can't
qualify that really so the way that i'm qualifying it is in going to be raising money for three veterans charities that i've had personal contact with that of help me during my
recovery um and they are the sympafy fund the tomatoes foundation and the polish is lutetia's heroes and so that's how i'm going to be a osago to be showing veterans that america
loves cause that is something that's been made abundantly clear to me everywhere i go mad all the time i think i did free breakfast in a row where somebody paid for it anonymously
i got thanked all the time and so if they're saying that stuff to me it's obvious that they love all veterans and i'm trying to help catechetic that gap between the military and
the civilian world and get them to to talk and and show that shover at their coming back to a country that appreciate them and loves them more than pretty much any other thing and
so i think by the donations and by having people come out and run with me and show me support then that kind of help i took prove that to people so where can we go dona what's the
what's the lank robbed jones journey dot com robbed jones journey don colia does donate length there and you can also see my schedule there and i'll have details of where i'm
going to be and it's the whole contrast coast west coast yet mill enternity around for you can drive in a day to get who next potton twenty six point to like my longest drives
twelve fourteen hours and it happens maybe once or twice so is there all pretty close to each other and major cities and yet you can go to my website brobson's journey dot com
donate there see my schedule or spp that you're goin to show up you don't have to with you but if you want to that's cool i'll have all the details there and then social metius
all at rob one journey all some i tis all some men it's just awesome and your for onomea i grabbed a couple this a little short peace from your journal again this is something
that i just thought i is just going to be helpful to me when i read it and will be helpful to anybody that that listen here's or reads this and here we go back to your journal the
conscious is in control of forming habits every time we are face with the decision of whether to quit slow down and rationalized a reason why that's o k or keep pressing forward
one of those habits is strengthened the more times we choose to push on the stronger that habit will become it takes time and purposeful effort for these habits to becoming
grained but once a person develop them in the gym doing something as simple as choosing to keep rowing hard for another minute they can apply what they have learned to the rest of
their lives they will learn to take the harbor past so that they are challenged more they will learn to put extra effort into daily tasks cool you are depends entirely on your
influences and the level of effort that is put into forging erself into what you desire to be a matos ye i mean every ever diastema either gets you closer to your gold or move
further away and i'm not saying i never make the decisions that move to the left may be further away i'm human i like everybody else the m u e excessively he you do you know we
are hanging out yesterday i was like i was dizzy i lie gayangos in that business you know i had for dinner last night in mine no i do have a artot's not happening work no my
entire dinner was a left over specifies salad and a giant man chocolate chip militia actually said my wife as i could make me cause i was working and i you know i see you can't
stop and eat when you're going work and so i just said can you make me just a giant man chocolate chip not shake now i didn't get closer to my you know physical gold now but i got
a lot of work though i tananarievo twenty eight minutes worth of work to cause i didn't stop to eat dinner yes you get take the winds with the losses i dig it and it's not just a
bell you know making that it's like a plight your progress on a graph and you're going to have it is long it's going to go up as on a go down libitina it's got down so as long as
that trend is upward then the are you ready to have nothing to worry about but if that thing sir he level off and then i go the other way then he did ask yourself a question you
give yourself so monsters year you know we had a conversation not too long ago ah a guy asked about jiguel and said you know i understand that you shouldn't persistent through
acation just like go to get a belt a you go because you want to get better in your own alone and and he said you understand that you should just do it to get the bell but it's
good to marketcross and figure progress out and i was in etetuma what you're saying might yea and i i've talk about that too um in i i related to shooting where when you when you
focus on the target year your vision gets blurry and were you lose track of the long term the long term goal or the long rains target so that's why we focus on a front sight cause
we can keep that little thing that's right in foot free feet and tronosha rifle you can keep that in focus so that's what you focus on and every one in a while if you start that
maybe that is a little buryin you look at you long term targeting costobell grind o beat you down to ye and if you just did the daily grind the daily grind the daily grind beating
you down and then you you you forget what you're goes in the first place but so every one while you you got a look the toulon term go and say i want to be doing this or achieve
that or wotever wanted to thirty one maroons see oh some people would have pick like february to right lilian eight materials your goforth was a that's the difference right there
a v i want o me it if i want to make these points that's why i rode my bike from maine to southern california i was sitting there going it i could i could ride florid of the san
diego it would be technically be alloway across here but a nicely they would be that but now don't want any buttons associated with anything that i do i don't want any bithan
reason to say oh yeah robe one sees ran thirty amathusian days oh god in thirty two s you got to do a good job on on your social media when you're twenty gon on this thing you got
a document this thing impose it so yet i can light i'm hoping so a work in with em sportiest rated i think they going to do it videotape without limit you or the use they did you
get visionaries ruminating judge of videos or hates yet land like you know i documented the ah bird that's the doc many's on my upside too so yea i do try and document ly things
and he shecase people don't happen to catch it i i'm doing it they can go back and and use that as their example for for what i've done he can find out that way were well um i
know you get stuff done and you hammer out your daily tasks we're goin t let accohanoc his fantastic lively or you time we antastoui do i extorsit on me weightlifting analogy all
think like weight lifting and exercising in general like cries like the perfect analogy or things you know a year hose ye i mean i could go into a life teresita that is an
abetting analogy he ailie at that waits on you a yourang in use it to get better or you're going to let it bury you in the ground yet the choice is yours what you going to do yet
and i like you any good to show we talk about the sometimes swear you can take a lateran them person right and you be like hey let's go to the gym and there there can be literally
opposite reaction to eat to different people so one gone like all gals go to the jam yet no work out and i tried to get in shape good you know it's a thing or an get on de like
that's the worst thing in the world i wonder that you i don't get that like that's hard and it hurts even the next day at her you know so meanwhile it's a same exact activity by
the way you so you can look at it those two different ways you know what else is messed up is there's activities tartar also good for you and move you in a direction that you want
to be moving but maybe i like what say the god you can let we can i give you elgood example you take a me head right and you go okay you want to go to the gym what is the means
alleaged but then you say to that same guy who seems all motivated in fired up to improve himself yes and you say hey let's go read a book and crying you don't understand better
of this concept of whatever the old they say that and rather go to the genera so interest yet the wait the weight isn't necessarily just a physical way rights pressing up against
whatever it is that's going to improve you he and you can either use it to be you down or you can use to make yourself better yet and again just as the concept right at in the
exercise in weightlifting and like your body just kinda figuratively condemn in strata so much you know that a place for a inhospita fell away but curls is that what i marianson
le thing like you that in elysian way beyond cure which should i go into this now to your daily cassiera weak lionship am i a long straight white i rub on her to live slideway to
hear for the poor the lie of you get to witness the support lies honor selimah echoed to his work of his life work is he like wornout old b after this liking good about you want
me added a videogame made in america or gin that's the company organ men do come you started in maine yearclose heads where this place is we just got back at last week near issue
or we can all whatever yet that's a cool spot in he has a sighed noisily this i think is an like to history channel ornament like that where i was kind of like a shell and out of
the store you told about getting he got this delorier he got dot actually make right ready they lie came in filmiest uff ye pause yet he showed it to me but i ericsen he telling
the story in like man that took it took like de eight hours or something or more than to mornaye like to get it and it is big thing in the condishin they were there for that
yearsall mandrin the loom seroit lois now kiss that a meeter in the hohe asked me as a inalienation heard that like one chancellarial right yet and when you think a lot to make
sense of the herds futuma like rises the fat breckon know he has all the strings or he and i africana so when they see me in america in this case it's for real made in america
they get the cotton from america they make it with alone there which unamerican well hoematis guy proberts up an origin which were in league now with origin yes but it went up
into old mill because all the mills up there a lot of him shot down and and actually i think all of them shot down and these were these were these were factories that were like a
half a million square feet and they were filled with looms and filled with production and filled with a war american workers and it all went overseas and he went in and literally
bought a loom for that i think that the secret alone cost of the scrap metal that it was worth there anyway talked hired to old timers that new still how to work it brought them
back to work and then started making clothes and well may indicate it hard with but but wen you know got everything being lined up to get mad and that loom they only had that one
because they're going to put in a museum or yet that they were linearly to the except that one loom that they had left their put in making a muse in anardrats awesome because you
see there's so many people out there now they're like ol a country as may problems or country as some may problems when you to do this for you do that and othey say somebody onto
this somebody needs a or an like hay yet you and here's a guy that's doing that you have that's me also here yes yes and he as interesting to one we went a can tell you the into
it he's like he were driving up there he rocking about how yarn is all mad and tell your hat like a i got i got a come down for i'm getting to our suits in dolonites say he's into
it at any window and botoring rushed loom and reverberation in and do a factory built on his own property its eurus sah and i hillstoke the geese of it you might do jeered yet
they gaze are like me the copy know marcharse whatever but he brings like this added like element to it woreseff lly designs in fer ye forgits not the kind worth i can let me get
a gee blank from overseas or whatever and elie embroider my local on it so it's kind of like the same thing you don't you know have much innovation freedom with the physical
product he does though polite i took out his room me other day gianetta off the top and you left with just the path so the pensile thereby em like size know you were thirty six
the in regular stuff is just the like numbers a one eighter for fetiches is like fitted to you right from where in the pants and they feel it pinaleno pen you and i as great in
one terlake the renaissance i don't mind getting choked out by unmeaning my streak every day and i wearied every day up to two tops i wear every day in the street is still like
every single time someone asked like one of winganameo seeeder aristonoues womersley ye biologie and see the short and on into a shakin in a way should i mention these good
beelike an outward on making this sort because they don't make these short we will make of a i've worn these three is an roonoonoo watch but but yes i my favorite sort there
measter al as one of the one of the geese adeline yeah it's my spelling on it the hat leaves the these shorts are black by a a so you you when you still eggs or out of opeyin you
gerd and stuff and i still thought it or so you just take a brush like you know like the brush you plan on your sinker whatever put some one on a striped it you can't do that on
like your short cattle start to wear it out you know bodaito it's supposed to be tough won't did it and he has to wish it anyway shyanne short smoky apafi though well maintenir
yer stand by for that none the less you is ages all can the rash guards and even like like regular clothes shirts who is an what not the jaggers a cup putting on the jagers and
walking around in front of my wife she liked not was a worrier things as i din't actually know what guardage or the new jaggers you know they're like the terniloffs the bill i
swept pans but they somehow more high and yet the shade of different they can to take room done legs like gonorowsky genealogical i'm going to go out and say i don't endorsation
neither do i but i put em on and i'll like it hides i don't know how i look at they didn't have a mere in the cabin um except in the bathroom put in on the less oh yet so i
couldn't see how they look they look at a strange from a bear but i don't know sawteeth horn is litenie wore the origin jography and the matching orateur or hood and he went he
rolled out like that like it was and i can wetewayennendane with the straight up leisure suit is what it has rorke his old out played her out and then what a lekain i thought
people would be like all you know you don't match in that because i'm not you to wear it but be a titian i looked good in it and then my wife said i look good in it oh well that
went on on what i had for me an i hereinbefore at all a ellyson of honesty because he mentioned either you on think he was you or some one who was like i don't think he is jocopo
it off your honorine that and they might have been one of something and starting butlerite you know ayadante holding to albercas lad for goal be at not as he don't not happen i
should read the the no how maybe i'm not securing my man had no i do harrelstein the less functionally that is what i noticed right when i put em on though like when you roll out
you know i like if you have and not that it even of big deal even me talk in aboveness like you know how it is when like something happened i another i don't know i was when you
were skinny the sasiaty have bloomed what is talking about but i mean would maselino condense so in mineralists speachless teinach is hard in the spirit of accuracy of mango down
this old you know when you wear have you ever one swept pentievre life not really that is what panorama born swipe andreas yes old consider this when you let lay like ounound or
walking or whatever he's like the footman you loefling a big deal i dig it i understand but the skinees sweat panadoes how you should really skimmed my boccalino any on your
iidamachi cause they don't flatter out there like a you're running to it up to work in istonisht right for that very readaris three feet of snow is running short espeshually good
to go would not islet all so jocasse laments my monayene this rubens but super cruel available now available bombordo com or gently and in labs it's as leatatafili the earth man
you were the call it the top men you know what place lads supergirl joint war far yes that's a big one i mean we know crows like the bases he the joint warfare yet sovente
significance will lay or if you will a thing it'll maybe that's a stretch would lay but this is the the stuff that you've been taking from the jump alice were some bones bonadona
stuff that i now can take in one shop so like when you're even before this paresis you like taking cockle and croil in all this stuff you like you i would be make this even better
slingway know looking and lisette little ah elements or whatever a inquietation to make my own and boom it happen kiefer to day so where are you a joint or fatha's a good one
super crathis credit has the added thing right in the crittur crill aoi and antlike suitor crillon that's it sir prepotent crow okayed irard super duper owego adversative duforte
the olano goin to take the market from his now rose jones super duper crowell you had it well he doesn't make things out as got into weather site and myrtale to waingapu will but
ye so basically everything you need for the joint situation your covered and then what about that pre work got premission prison premission in pretty work out it's coming the
onalee becoming yon it's got up in offutt's bowe are we it is it is in the testing phase and has been being tested it and legisperitis kind of addicted diridotis on it dot com
flashed jocko so i get on my katabira i got into cattle bells after this pot yes kind of started and you don't honest awesome stuff specifically the kettle belly cause her the
designer onesome that caaer sir phil i get the whole set and the whole set technically i have the weight that i think i'm going to be able to use littered estate have home a forty
kilograms it was at eyght a tom that's cool man clerestory i got the ninety pound one so whatever so they sate all eteint pounds that you have i have that plus more more so no big
deal stammerer going or there you go go and let you are skinnygauge jobs from time details for footroom it and paid ads in by the way got the grille one a few weeks ago um the
ninety pontoon is the big foot tis for information over a lever on a make a hundred pound jockied matthey sat at a people have been saying that asinarian required of any one would
actually want that that ah i you i saw it i sent me eight to use it two hundred fifty two hundred something pound kettlewell than i and even know what i mean ye guess rang cold
asked leg there's like you know some people are just but in strong e g at one of my team guy buddies just met and strong intrigues great deer but he got a the best i don't know
who makes it but there's a catboated the beast i think it's like a hundred and two pounds or something very but there was like the sole test paying the beast and he got the cattle
bell out of a box did the test past it to no mails like i been things that i couldn't do it all i was like okay em you're legitimacy it's cool that's like one of those exercises
that you if you learn that the form it's like the added element cause you got it learn the form to van the string and the anadir is good for you because you're developing you
developing a nero right must be a connection he asked doom fank you amadou know lost for words and you've had me covering move of a noon i got you but yes to you it's basically
you have learned to balance something that's not balance to its good like that bag i lifted in man this guide good to interpose the way o worricows feel the first time also they
got what jump rope may sasonof your work out gets boring jooaneeta problem we know we know this he just was pereheron all this stuff but some people they get bored you know with a
worship you all the school suffocated ocassion also i when he by these actionen journal if you don't mind yet on the esitation a by its free yeah yeah but if you know you go on
there put in the book section and i be awesome if he met good and if you if people want to get some other books that jack war a tax about ye go to or what they do right as to come
books from a gas that's on the top man you and then you cut through there to get your book takes it damon don't lick through there or if you do any other shop in bungled that good
way to support smack you begration they is alexicrates support for surely i have biased that two times now he wants in man and i think i was at in event the other day ah and
someone asked me does it really help as i yeserias it's exactly what ecossay it is no small actually takes what like three extra second her small action don't one too quick
whatever and i be wartering also subscribed to the pigassof minoret and i some canities right i don't subscribe but if you haven't subscribed or searcher or lovable yeah anything
to provide platforms tokrie a good wit as for easy you know bob also you to tell vitechapel a pot was last foot on there the book to oh yeah is on lines free him you'll manual vol
povarnias the bolting exereate good bid alianora to was pretty good to yet i felt jockeyed all aware freiligrath hard night to i mean your lifting after like a whole day isibonda
ouida was like a long day your own on day know me the kind where i'm like okay just need like these shots you know cause we're doing it for like other stuff and i'm a red the
steels and whenever and as like i just need the shot still do as well make it here so you'll have to put on all that way and he's like now feel aiauway so like britain the man i
will say is like thing i was a shootin of video doing lifting weights and they like you or she goin to do with no way i'm like no but just gideon that i want the wit that i want
to be on there as a hundred to thirty five pounds of one that to be on video i don't want no weight to be on video yet he even wait one further is that there is a few shots that i
was getting that did it show how much way it just showed that front of the you know it's like in an angle you could kind to see part of the week kind of these like now is like you
wouldn't allow him so as i actually said you know i i took the rob jones approach as like okay i got a move on with to round him in use the opportunity to bag myself better i
don't work out hollister that one of the methodist yet he worked up for and i digitate little less back to you to bomb with put some videos on there including a not limited to the
teverin of this pot gas also additional videos excerpts you know every elevate deleted scenes in few blood temple talk rubbish before we actually includes you know or we don't
include in potassium times will put that up and put on their eye to add a entertainment you know her jocose a lot o nae other further much on there on on the record but you know
he gets after a a from time to time a miss omaha ging out with a a one of my brows annealed n't even just even get nuts leaping in your finding rule yet he like over dead and so
none alas ye you do that's a good one i also jocatore if you did already know guess was cold we want you on a limb said jacko stole jacarandas start out commeession near there who
iceflow you know some layers on those tea shirts layers meaning not physical lies a wapiti layers ethical netelas really reaching yet three to oregon is pretty poetic leadville
sonnet or a man leary are lost that one my son and you know what the layers are with that the right if you look at the good shirt it is dunashad the ahao right but the good is
backwards and here's a thing that's why we people try to counterfeit thou and they don't they don't get the layers the justedal it or that's a marketing dane or whatever the and
let sell that for they don't get it they don't know the latter so as good as backward and stackers for reason they're goin t read it in the mire because who as you say or that
when you hear that who are you say that to your not saying you know to your poor daughter whose crying because she skimmed her new you don't say good she's like all she cries more
that's not her mantier missus message to give somebody else your message to keep to your letting your daughter cry in the first place well she you know at the irreclaimable to
meeting her sense at its side as all you know where in an tesire for yourself to look down like that where it so other people can read it you can read it in a typical case but not
these that teacher is for you a radio you with the message with jonas face faintly not free to not for everybody but that is for you unless that's just an example of the layers on
the shirt joculator doom is also from poison there some travel mugs tumpum er stickers the jocolate sixteen took it off growe lost that elect you did say it like twenty seven
votes yea i got some legislator person am on it resign me in red of the wine i dare that you know what i don't want hilarion i don't want donald trump i want i want to talk of yet
i think it might be a good choice actually at mariotic i figure by the bite conjoine the essene actually told me that i should run for vice president that wouldn't have been a
good choice yes ah i don't know if you would have got my vote no i don't know how wontonly liaison the less this some cool stuff on cockshott's the point um you know i'm not
saying hold by some stuff of things on there see what i see what's on there and he likes something get something good with the sport also this little thing called psychologic or
for you ever heard of yes he i ave pretty don't have it i'll tell you what all day o kasai don't have to let you know that it's an album with tracks toltecs so basically the you
don't already know the rub one now jonkenpan obviously let's say you're on your campaign against weakness and fonteia going turn can campaign against lee mirian i'm goin to be
disciplined in all these areas on my life wakener diet i'm goin to work out you know hovenier a day stenio ready germany or farther death does normal yes normal getting after he
came down cannoned you have a moment of weakness like jokai the mint chocolate chip placed cream a void that jack obviously didn't listen to his old outbutchered of lalage or for
what you do is in time you you come across these moments of weakness lispt a track put a track in like if you have an artomenes whatever boom get wake up get up wake up ego
waiting get after that's the tract name help your right through that weakness smashed that weakness has actually a asiatic war for jockeying m p three i too were ever am as m
three or being distributed that treking at him oh you can also on amazon you can get something called jouait tea rob jones had his first shock a white tetootaiost not only to wish
his hat i have noticed to you've been very attentive ear words are crisp and clear i mean you feel the power her right yes i look at it i totally ingratiation to nasty to my ah
mental capacity increase at least tenfold or if not more substitooted you can get down on him as on it ted legato how good is it taste though it's really good it is it's any
tosti's he doesn't really taste like de right the place in a charlie tea does have any sugar in it now you tell me john awaited doesn't have any sugar into a good entertain a take
it till i excite victory as a hen we got some oksunae and where you want to buy books extreme oneship come that lesson come allies of less island and how you can apply those two
business and life way of the warrior kid yeah way the warrior kid that's what you need to get for every kid you know it is so helpful for kids i wish i had that book when i was
nine years old ten years old eleven years old it so helpful and i'm get such great feet back so by that fur the kid you know for sure coming up soon the disciplines freedom sealed
manuel that's right it is a field manual how to implement and execute operation discipline into your life fallowfield manual you can get it from your local book store you can get
it from barns and noble you can get it from amazon let them all know what top also echeloot leadership consulting for your business or team that's a red you can email lost
infinitely of front dot com and in the meantime if you need us or you just want to check in we are rolling in it beat on the interweb on twitter on in stagra and a face she all
hayroun it at rob jones journey at rob jones journey he's going to be documenting all this awesome flash could be stupid but could be mostly awesome stuff that he's doing and we
like to watch people be crazy stuff so yet we'll go watch to do that and i'll post a picture in these day like to put a little snip at a wisdom in there an end sir liparaeae to
read nitida said the new york times ye don't don't easiest rob jones of it of the way home yes i like fixa ple as you won't be the example consume people's thessian to be leagued
they don't explain it you just explained their actually in a way that was conereene to me where it makes sense you know you're like hey i'm in and this goes for everything by the
way like if you want to i do like a special effects sometimes on like men i want to do this but man that's like so high infect can't do it on this and then but then let's say look
it up on you too and but i always look he did it right here and then you know something to show miles show house something to they don't but like i said like if you don't think
like if you think i achthein a camp be done i don't like for so many my position or whatever you know but then you see some all ages doing it and then you are doing it where it's
like your doing even more to like your kind of reaching more people in that way cause still it you're doing this crazy seeings maybe one may be to other people i calandola too but
most people they'll be like arthur do that here islesen do all the other stuff you know what i mean i have stuff that they didn't think they could do before tresorier's crazy atop
to stuff her doings all her it's craigie crazy to do it ah so ye robesons journey and that includes robbed jones journey dotcom as well which in that from there you can get the to
the donation page for when you're starting all this all this h thirty one merriton's in thirty one days most people run a marathon it and i think i've read it takes like six
months to actually recover from a marathon i guess it depends on your level preparedness but you tried do in about six hours that i awesome echo is at cocheres and i am at joaille
echo you got a canaletti you for coming on robots rob any closing thoughts from you all i just want to start by pointing out that i think every guess you've ever had on this pot
gast is somebody that i consider to be a heroine i don't throw that around their patriots and they are heroes and it is humbling for me to be included for you to have me on the
poncas is vastly humbling for me to be included among the people that you deem worthy of being on the podcast so i just want to think both of you for for having me and give me the
opportunity and i this hope that some of the stuff that i said can resonators mebbe some listeners and beyond that i've been a lot stuff but nobody does that bonsels i have had so
many people that have helped me therapist procedis coaches mentors and family friends and then especially pam i mean i told you before she is doing everything she was instrumental
in getting this podcast done getting me on as as i guess here took it upon herself to to treat you she is callin press she's helpmeet ven you she is a zinc bennette and she's my
number one supporter and i you know too good for me but holy she doesn't listen to the ill fusillading to be to loaded ah but yet i mean i i'm at the top of the pyramid like i get
all the contentit an the congratulations for doing the stuff that i've done but without the base the pyramid the pyramid is ship the block on the ground so without all these
people i mean i wouldn't have accomplished it i would i might have tried but i wouldn't be i wouldn't be where i am prowl be on the pocassett have actually done anything well um
you know for every one that's come on and and then to sit here and have you you know that they have you and the people that have come on this pocassett have you sitting across the
table from me and be all to spend time with you yesterday and hang out with you i am rewarded a thousand fold a thousand fold from you to me that's that's where the reward comes
and it's an honor a thousand fold for you to be here and and be sitting here talking of me and i thank you for comino i thank you for your service i thank you for your sacrifice i
thank you for the example that your setting which is awesome and and showing every one what it really means to you persevere and to not only not only overcome challenges but you
are embracing those challenges and turning the harshest of challenges in de something positive and something good and that is what an thanking you for for explaining what it
really means to adapt an overcome no matter what we face and everyone out there that's listening in your going through hard times or your facing a rough patch or a challenge or an
obstacle in your life adaptor from it overcome it transcend it and us the weight of that challenge to make you stronger than till next time this is rob jones and echo and jocko
out
