this is jacopo cast number ninety three with a charles in me joaille bideing ho that evening i was lucky and blast to have had the honour deserve in the united states military
during the time of warm i thought alongside us army soldiers sailors and marines on violent battlefields and i saw with my own eyes my generation of warriors uphold the proud
tradition of the american fighting man america's military has a story history of bravery ingenuity and grit but it's most important tradition is the tradition of victory america's
military winds wars it is as simple as that if our nation deems it morely right and existentially necessary that our military is unstoppable of course and rightfully so the credit
for victory is often given to the men on the front lines to those that are taking the fight to our nation's enemies in close combat that credit is well deserved but it is not the
only credit that needs to be bestowed because it is a simple fact that many of the most critical victories in america's history or one not only on distant bloody battle fields but
were also on right here at home in factories fields and farms to see or ability to produce to design grow build and manufacture has been just important to our nation's victories
as are ability to fight and throughout history when americans marched to war we marched wearing boots made by american hands and we wore uniforms that were cut and soon in
factories like this one or body or mehemet and weapons have been the product of american work ethic skill and determination the best plans ships and vehicles in the world that
carries the war and in support us on the battle field they only exist because americans built them without the american worker there can be no american soldier so let us never
forget that the freedom we cherish so dearly is a dish not only from our american service men and women but results a gift from the american worker the american worker who toils
indeed in factories in ship yards and on jobst american worker who gets up day after day after day not only to build and re product but also to build our economy for strongest
economy in the world which gives us unmatched influence in gives are great nation the ability to make the world a better place with that knowledge i could not be prouder to stand
here to day and be a part of this opening i could not be prouder to be a part of this company or a gin which like america itself will succeed because of the power of the american
worker they will succeed because of the power of american grit in origin us will succeed because of the unmatched power of the american dream then i would like to thank all of you
especially america's work force for making this dream possible and that is a speech that i gave to day in a town called farming to maine and i was at the opening of the new origin
a factory now as i've been saying we are now in league with or gin us and tonight i have with me argue partner and a deferent p roberts who as you will see is shonson patience
ible fortitude in the business world and you i believe is just getting warmed up so mister peet roberts found her of origin use at belton jete by the way and also black belt in
making things happen well is a man ordered versus everything you just said man to capture everything i feel in my heart mind pressure on that speech life was pualena iowa was
awesome walker on the factory and meeting people on meeting the workers here i mean just we came in and we go she is she was it's a week of vacation what she doing she's in your
work in this work and you know just an i wasn't even really didn't really know it i was going to say but after coming up here meet her seeing the rest of the the people grinding
to make this happen um ye i realized that i realize exactly what was going to say i was going to talk about the fact that literally malleable field you your your your perpelled
there by american workers and that's what this that with this represents and ah you know we'll get into how all this kind of cane together in this kind of perfect storm he will
get there but will get their own awhile how kaiserist we got a no little bout of it about me you and your crazy ass which i say with all you know in a competent man possible way
the verso caleb is growing up like get me from like birth to high school was at all but absolutely so and all started in sport to hanimals rail starting to let her and elma my
water which your as roberts isn't no angelica some greek in asylums and aunt in renonce so that she's clearly dread because i met her clear leandre and she made that bockle out to
thee and so i thought she might pull out a spar and sort of some point in lecacheur anaitis he pulled out a big thing a buckle of a eaean like shiver collie don't care if you feel
pity of you i am no i wanted more gnosian people we like where's all the pocantico i gets god and i looked over there's six pieces left i had four of onabasha awesome nom i'm half
breed just half spartan and so no aw ye anemen like the rest of america you know my my grandparents emigrated from sparta greece in the only nineteen hundred grate gram lived to a
hundred and five legitera at the yes my living on dockwater use sangoan arnese as a shadow she didn't need to be she the mediterranean diet and i saved my son not to meet her
bessestadt but alas yes so for a young age i got to see the american dream from my mom side of the family in one when we were kids and i was borne down to masterson i moved up
your yanked my mom wanted gettin myself and my three siblings out of massachusetts and into the woods just cause she saw some shifts happening she didn't like so she brought us up
here and said make a go of it basically and what what business or whatever what did they what do you oh why saw i got to see my my family built in pretty pretty cool business is
down a massachusetts so being an antepono was something i always admired ah but didn't realize i wanted to do that until a little later in life a but my my my family down there ah
my grandfather had a soshasun selled freyo itnow there's that one of those things where they call it different things across america the asailin is the same thing as a subway
sandwich vevaisan that you called a grinder deucalion a grinder a would be i think technically a no'theaster as holy a whole yellows at ouroboros i longeetoto one a poor poor boy
that the other hanover some supper the after sob soyoso grandad on the sub shop a few a few sebot very successful with the sandwich making it is ah i i got to see that my cousin's
built a big multi multi million dollar company and i and i had the watch this from away because i moved up to her to mainners old so i was in cultured in that at all in the
business world a navette ach me about business and i just got to see it and i not be directly part of it which i always wanted to be in no ambut i always looked up to them and and
and what not and both from business perspective in athletics you know they were very good athletics my family and and my uncles cousins and stops i looked from afar up here in
maine in the woods in an old farm house down at derrotero neighbours cows in a field yet that's where i grew up and then high school you you said you are i i knew your athletic
will you have a halter you six three and shrinking six three insurance can man nose and what's your matthat you're what you walking around that right now right now i can tell you
exactly two fifty three point zero hebut you played what would you play i i ah in in high school three swarth lee and college football a division on for a couple of years am not
the best experience of my life learning experience but at the best for on why wasn't at the best experience olive i you know i was i was real good at it football or i was not
passionate about it i am but i still work my associates the thing you were kind of even though you were this be ja i was you are also an artistic guy right artisan was a artyfarty
i got along with everybody that he the jocks athletes all the ariki they know i like that erybody i could appreciate everybody's talent where you like drawing painting and doing
everything that a arnaneelia gulping everything is doing everything in the tackling people yea oetting it an slainte you more passion about art than you were about football for
sure for sure answer your plan football like it was it just one of the things where you hanim good at it and i'm getting a scholarship some tiny going on down yes so back in night
he ninety seven percentages year how old faintheart was a back in the day as some molemaer hockey fans manes hockey team was phenomenal they had the career kids on there and they
were that that team took gifts and would happen when he get gifts and people find out sanctions so i went into college and they had like ten scholarships so i did not all have a
scholarship to my second year of college can at the proved myself what i worked my ass off and then i i fell into the politics of college football and i saw the ugly side of the
politics of college football and ah and what he talking cause i'm the only guy settable in it and her parent we play college football is busy in the tregeraint was that consist of
like your trying to get to be in the certain position starting or is it a announce let's say like okay so i was post i was supposed to start my grand i read surety my freshman
supposed to start tied and got into a barrownight and during the calmer couldn't play the first few games and it was me and what one of my friends who were reboth freshmen he was
a big kid local kid ah hither plane in the inflame and we were kind of like fighting for the first spot we dep cared a death cart and for those to know is like kind of where you
stand right in on you see your name on there and you see everyone else's name and you want to be the top guy right gaintht ill for every position the oil yeah every position she
yea so little pressure to perform and i stayed after my freshman put on twenty seven pounds in like hard earned muscle no illegal substances squats mc donalds la settimane to eat
some food here at mc donating lo what would you go from what weight to what waitee into college at lek so it was like two hundred in me to twenty five in you and at all of this
old mill hand mementoes and then a head then just earned it earned in the jam i remember my titan coach coming up to me and said he no steve steve was his name is a hisland now
he's like your going to be starting this first game in on my shin im an i stayed i stayed like work my ass on i know stayed during breaks in everything and i was a good half hour
and what's cool as he that you're actually going as hard as you can he skeshige you weren't even that passion in all but i committed to it his wont to win yes ye joiuse adept
chart even if you don't necessarily like what you're doing you make the commitment and you drive and i didn't want to be number two you know so is super competitive of college
sports so anyways a clue that my titanic like your starting the first game on like yes colony family call my friends tell him what's up make sure penance take its you dyadya like
a day before the game the coach comes to me and says petatone you i said okay i sing it just got a huge argument with the head coach and you will not be starting in the football
game i said okay why he goes basically told me politics my friend still a friend of mine to kid he came in on a forrid local kid big kid had probably a better frame compelled on
and basically what the even though maybe i be you know it it's college we have different gifts the head coach shut it down said no pensting my teachers like he should start he's
performing patter you know his strong in a way from handling and three hundred pounds the kids ready to go he should be started at a huge flight almost a fired the coach of my
might set in cothamore he said you'll be playing a lot in the game though but ye he'll be starting guess how much planetoids none the zero so that was the first game of the season
you said he and so that what happens he tried not to rest the season temenis your attitude i worked my ass off dar you kept going to earth did you ever start here is the shooting
and ready saleability sheeted is here's the shitting men i couldn't i'm tell you i had football petittor this i didn't watch football for ten years they put on television i'd walk
out other room i just hang out do something else in it be watching a game my son loves foot ball my face my family love football couldn't do it i had like a just a version to the
the sport to make a long story short giessen forty five minutes we have new made past shot humped my my eh my scholarship the money like like some o money hit your count right and
like she didn't kick in for like my food everything in my my coach the head coach what was that narcissistic guy love come in on the wet room and just like waving his hair and you
know i want of those gonyennetakan call it my shoes great aniela i'll take care of a pet bit spine everything's happening okay weekly coach till this is is it you know i i am on a
long i'm talking with the adinterin good we claytonia still like mattress and you know it that have to get a job like what's up with with this he was an talcumy office is no k i
sit down in his office your scholars ship money is not going to kick in really i overgave title mine had kicked in how and he overgave now his he being truthful with me or did he
find a newer croup that was better that he pushed me out who knows i don't know why cause the kid behind me in the upstarting full back the next year right so maybe i got pushed
out maybe he overgave back to the matter is that basterio me and didn't fall through it his word and that will never happen gain i will never surround myself with those types of
people and that lesson i carry to this day i think bout it a lot to lose moments in your life that kind of change is your life i said you know i take something i worked my balls
off for you in this program i'm brady and this is what i get that excuse it out the office i grand my cleaves and in it of my body chad rogers walked out the door and looked back
she now was at it so at that that was your sophomore year yet that would have been my retards right after my room is a operator what are you studying at this time studying a new
media which was really new cause he remettre hittin like ninety seven ninety eight mitiori thrilly disinterment you can haul it ninety seven oh yeah one he came on at a surelying
so you say for sure none seminator antaeus like the internet you everybody need everybody had had your well dot com eye netske anacebu you got on you could really serve the web
easiest since the ye and website development and flat this flash it came on medallists anyways i was into that i i ah discovered the the computer thing and fell lovewit design on
the computer and although as a sculpture major as of well do crazy looking shit i i actually super to call postage for like my final project you want to know i did i built this
big friedinger on this like canvas and i erected it and i sipped of the hainault king the lovelike them like the ariadne reels tip a real siberian you know like that than the like
the thing you hold the yeaned it was this bangassi my my my art teacher they allowed you to do that and have a choice i just now did it saith yes and with a like streak bartender
allow yea it was weird i think i got some of that frustration i want for sirring it up and i have never known what anybody that did that thing to my my my i you get grated on it
yet the so how did you not tell anybody cause what happened was this i erected it in the practice field in my teacher she walked over with me to look at it and she looked another
josias low hartnett missive like you did and there he had it on the oriana she goes factoring ahead what she she did think it was possible rogero said like i sipped my gold
poinsinet inking who is this sonantem that i don't know dithelite sit hang hanging toilet paper off of it like weariness in her exeter has for impeached for one and i wish you did
win have digital cameras back then he yea but that the teacher was cool she was never her name as she was created you left it up for the practice guys when they had a pull down if
she she actually told pulled me aside one time and she is like you drive this class how what you do and how you act every one is gonna ballo basically she was shewest cool but
that i was on jaleibiwala prophecies that she or a don iterate way not on appeals a goal post man adelifa tell other in five feet thirty feet probably more than like the full
gilliteen with the practice the help you very follerive not even leading put that i put in the inn in a in a tilted out of let like wood laminated band saw like all the logs and i
had a fiftieth perfectly in that whole zipper had the siphano yeshonaraseshen brady told my teacher asissi impossible come make it function no god was see ye there i said it
foredoomed that earlier so i at this time what are you what's that going on personally personal life the won't you litenins sweet hearted i was ye yes so i my wife a man o my
bride oh we got together we were sixteen fifteen sixteen through through a difficult situation on we became friends and we've been together with sense the dawneth by it to ficulty
to ation and you stayed together there college absolutely and she wasn't looking at ye like like a need to get away from the schuyler the pronoun she she's very understanding of
shiny yeah you know the corny line like you complete me like she i tell people like she if my glass is a little fool she just dump em out and if i run a little dry she puts it
back in basso and she always has no i mean so she's brutally honest and you know eiseleusontai you guys were ah you know i i knew that but it's kind of cool you guys say again all
that time now back to your your major and not notorient going football oh no you're sitting here in college at your studying new media which none knows anything about it an even
to think about it and we actually hired the professors my class really we had a we committee of students and we hire the frequent professors and so a insolenter how to do what
should bill website ye like us you are learning things like ah it's we all like them first software hit you had like this my you could do three ten animation they built like i
don't toctor and my are something to you had like flash macrama member the flash website the nimiti stuff like that so we learned about that so how did you make the jump from that
begonine business in that arena is good at it and i was passionao it and what happened is my soft more your attitude planful ball i would all right to a marketing a dose sold
myself on the spot and got hired one spot and i became there lead webb hobeler and you're like nineteen i was nineteen with blond hair ye alike who is this kid gathered one i was
nineteen i had lent her to no kid i hesitate i don't marisco we wot of wine have flung her soothes and nineteen o laundryman a walked in and i just sold myself okay so the now
that more than to your own business yes i i i war the custom i take of you the lead at nineteen years old was sabbatto hundred bucks a week but he and rakitin i need was the
relator you though right yet because it was either that or the winston know when i did work at the why but ah yes i mean it it was i i caught my teeth at this and agency where i
learned from this really good craft design of bread who started his career to in paste up so paced up his like when your designing and add you have set to take an exact so at a
little tools you use when you are in like foochow and one over and those are real tools real life tools so he he take like that knife and cut around the picture and any putative
the pioneers i cut my teeth under a real designer not many people get that any more so i learned from a master of design and the how long did you stay at that at that intending i
was there till i was then nineteen twenty twenty one three years i think and that i that i moved back on a stormy on company here and that was just inspirato what will what what
made you say you know what my you must he seen a pathway at the agency my ho to take over or not even take over but just a move up the chain of command and yet he paid more than
two hundred bucks a week in all that i did what in your brain clicked where you like in our not working from the man we absolutely house i do that i got an old lace to give you
that though raking blueberries and throwing hay manual labor throw hay for a day and get a ten dollar bill you go to work very hard not to do that raking blueberries and man which
is a staple of us manes testator your bed over in the sun and the blue berry fields and guess what you do for your first week you earn your rake sir was that man does a different
job that he wanted no arake picking or the wegtable you've got a file row iriarte your yard on goatee rake and you have to work it off how much i think that right costal i'm doing
a mass o my we pay liealone this is nocebat i like it and so when i when i walked at the my interview at the market agashka palpus o you know kid i said he said what you want to
do long term mark me said stockingness amnon business he goes you don't want it to that you do not want to own your own business as yet he you don't know what it takes to survive
in a world opuses and i said okay proceeder and socalled i could all the ale i could i i sucked it and sucked in soft it and then i i moved home and started and what city was at
it i started while i started the business out of my college apartment as about as big as this table i was the man though i had a little mac the elm a black one of walsh street
evidently in the remouille of all street if it had like a a it was black and had like rubber on the sides in onement thing caused me some issues because it was very tough to have
kids i sat at thing on my lap for hours on end and i'm telling you something with ready he should be at the practice all otaheite's good for the geta little tough when a young
weekdays but ah yeminites that the business out of my college apartment my first insight niedrig see a new media company and just started hammer and i was fearless going after a
count and clients you know and two years later i find myself in park itata sitting in the front of the president of rosecouleur selling of an idea like billgate i didn't exist yet
anteing it what i could do and then they gave me the money to do it and then we did it and ah tracassier said so every alteration so are everything was rocking and as soon as
janities you are your college partment but then where you end up i ended up here in my home town and you had space you got it off as an all ninary well i started in a barn and it
was mean and other key my first higher and then we moved in to kind of like a like a double wide trailer and house you know we call it a the bewieve an interne lookahere you have
to fall with ilsworth kidding who doesn't have a astrogator to keep it real so we went there and then we moved into a basement in town this is like the perfect perdetion right eh
and then we heard a few more and then we moved in two a beautiful we had built out a studio where man it was unweathered it to his imaging that legitimate now we were how my
iole's or retardant i think maybe savanerola some like that and now you're twenty two yeah i e that yeatton to getting on inertial yet six employees a costume designed offender
than you want to hear something i didn't i should say this can read if for this you may have to enter the sale i had old two governors campaigns in maine twenty two years old they
wanted like the best as in the best marking so they came to these young insane we had the sworn guales orton she'd maybe you not say the name you who you was in national news rot
you've cut it out understood really i i asked me i used and o it stain or ash new some really nice guy right after i am obama's first term so less came and he wanted us to handles
captain and so he wanted a low go that was circular like a bambilio and so he did i designed myself a circular though go which green and blue very similar field not even close to
the same but it was round and who had done around the wet that time next thing i know this thing end up on seeen all the national new stations and they have like the two low
gosnole on ingogo atlasses logo i cut it a influx emails and phone calls people like reperchure er how that first term for all bomber member how hot that was emberdale negative
when they were negative on you because they were like we ripped it off now like really really so we was round don't make a round low go ye nespella after the first abominatus
circles don't use circumsessi that's one in circles so i any way as it was it was it was an interesting time his little bitterest did he catch heat for it obviously again ate as
only are you know not even knew there like some he was like a withoutintending up and i thought it was great no well he you know it what they you know a kind of a little bit he
now that but he had an invite adviser than said this is the right direction and what not so it was it was interesting times so what was the heat the the heat was like national
media like ripping you down people down down who designed it like when company that design and just like hearing you all they found you yearbook picture they natives as erased we
are languebam as like fifteen days of like holy shit like wines it we got survive this as a company you know and we did the yes and so you you survive that yet and and i guess you
lessons like from that that you can arrive things she got ilicoides in i just cough that you said fifteen days i because geshaeft en days no one career is that verty much pretty
much yeehats you know people simple come on home and the freak out about something and i'm like to wait a waterford for days and others no more there's like some other meter that
hit the satellite saying or whatever ye so too it was it was interesting it we were young and now in native you know i mean i think all out pettish tarot nation estly in from a
leadership aspect of your orehannas first time yes and and you have a team is ipeople it you're the man up and i'm trusting oh i seen say that will hesitation heathrose will do
the right thing are the people that are working for you year age yellow younger get us all the sages at anna yer two difference okay all young so now you said recession what
happens there well we were we were kind of like booming and company building sonance ible that we were do interactive touch green koss and all this really really cool ship with
that nobody was doing it the recession had we lost sixty five per cent of our business overnight when was the first thing you cut no recession idein or not supposed to but you do
the wrong move but if the move it everyone makete i probably make the same move there where can we cut cost adds spend right stop that anyways the recession hit and we had built
this company for like the ground up just fondled the money back into the company built felt filled by equipment till the steadiest and like osiers time i thought about like these
guys bought houses here the families or starting families moved away how long had the run bennettii this had been in five years and at a good question what is the recession eight
or nine is to six seven year run oka succoring a established their lies they establish their families up here yet you were t for the form of income your how they're paying their
martial tely and i felt that in no don't know if that's a weakness but i'm sensitive to that man i thetais somebody something like this company is your future i mean this company
future i will stop taking a pay check and that's not the right thing to do you know was pay yourself right i will stop taking a pay check to make sure you get yours that's what i
did and when i also did as i took out a line a credit it was the first money i take out from the bank ever and i used that money to keep things going to try to get through the
recession and i didn't want to lay anybody off what i had them do as i had i start designing in house got it away lineing that you do after you cut advertising the biggest cost
just about any business there is as you people people so that's the next thing that gets caught the years and you're not going to do that and i'm an i'm young then learning about
business as i go you know so no macandoe now they so hem but houses and was not in a like i'm not taking away their livelihood you know i'll find a way to just get through red you
know and i in i believe i had forty two to get through you know but and there's the but lady and here's why because i had them start working on his hot in house projects and i was
training to jizo the time and so i was going to develop a platform so that an academy could build a web site based off of a completed system for their goguelat it was going to be
bad asked and we had done this for like rosecouleur we had we were like one of the first companies to build on line tools to build things makes sense and as night thierli two
thousand song on and you look at some product in you wanta theresa little custom as asiatica be done to you guys that design things you now move the mouse around and yet in
tenniel's a bone of her words none of them orero and so we started building this thing and you you building this thing but you're not being paid for yet because eventually i ella
you just that's not suainabost is today now did you get so take a little bit more of my time than i should have you bethink appennines did i think about it more than anything else
in the whole i did and just real word how did you get into get well after football i stop playing football and i like man i i i need to fight em like i need the you know i wish i
do desire to fight i may be all men have that i don't know but i felt like many erdultery like i need to fight so i like i can do so i started fighting in ticunian achieved that
in about two years was i coquet now what and then i found your gito and i got choked out by a hundred and fifty pound kid now was toward nay five pounds and i was like that's
convincer i iman humayoun figure it out i came at him with every bit of athleticism the kit choke me out almost cold and i had what just happened and i bought him to it so ayaway
it it was passion about eugie and i want to have this perfect plan to build a system and they started getting salty about it now that because they felt like there was an income
because they weren't getting paid by the project gettin or something like a waiting talayot they all got salaries so what were they getting eliot the fact that they were working
on my pet projects those words my pet projects they were also salty i had two very young kids and my wife in the office but the kids were in the office and i were in a plane with
her staff and do what kidsadita being kids my company my office my kids okay they found that a problem so out of the man he twas your relationship because this this unjust
assuming right now if you got a bunch of people that are working for you that are round the same ages you i and so i'm guessing that you are kind of brown out with me were
sudoriferous supper amasir broeniman ter kids right talented immature kids so i mayor talking about like hay let shut it down and go stoppering we got two inches of pawpaw
unsurely know and want hit that note we do we do shut it down gravestone by a rosenwinkle ten thousand dollars a product of distant wetigo up on ereren the mountain hey man
jesteth work done you all you need to be a man no aristides makower tone yes very loose super brow superposition the hinformation it the powder so he and the relationship was not
in boss worker employ relationship it was a creative i always wanted to we have food ball table one and if you know it came fraidcat of an him a yes but when she hits the fan the
fingers go to one person this guy night so all right i'm ready to sustain the thing to make it happen they weren't so one day i in my wife's office and the whole crew gets up and
hand me a paper and a thick paper the like will see you on monday the talk about this because they thought they weren't expendable otasite giving you an ultimatum ultimatum i was
like i turned white for a second as i okay and they walked out were you did you anticipate this at all no no idea i will never be caught off guard like that again in that
onderstandable to go to leave a more titisee you know that it's a real rat of new straight up munieka my wife is an emotional being we sat down we read this this paper and it was
a list of demands a list of demands about profit sharing how the company was making all this money and it was a being filtered down to the employees and about my kids and how they
cannot come into the office any more because they make noise a hole is to the man's decant concentrate when they're playing foods ball yaaaaaah amongst other things young stupid
kids in and i was one of a yet cause i was not eve so he started looking at the thing in a waistline why i i punched enough face and my wife went in and she spun up with her and
so she's french canadian in chesses a year anyway she spun up i said okay did she speak french when she's angry no i'll ca wish that his kind of hot haidarabad peeped for in it is
naamathite you get asked no so so what we did is we just we sat there and looked at each other and when like what what i said do they have any idea we just took out a line a
credit to support this place to get through the recession they have any idea we don't have any work so what are we do reknowned up their computers log in and started looking for
all the interaction between the staff and walwa they thought of me i was sad i was like wow missus sad made me feel like ship what they think me i mean i thought i was like some
type of miser like like scoring awake casanare silences i had because i was i always kept a straight face had ohoy personality and they had no idea how much in the hole we were
new and i can imagine that year trained to actually protect them from the stratians yes and in doing that you didn't communicate to them what was actually happening which meant
that they created what was happening in their own minds which was islanded creating what they think reality is in the mind when they don't know all the facts there so many times
in business when i talk of business is it but business or going through transitions or er something happening and you know they they'll they'll be asking like well you think we
should tell you know the the the employees what's happening i atalaia two choices you can tell them what's happening are they're goin to make of a story to make a astorian it's
not going to be good if they're going to take horse case in rio and so the open communications that is is how you prevent this kind of thing if an obviously you're twenty two
years old that's prose you are the position you are in an obviously can look back now and it's pretty simple that you with a solutions were one of them you are you are rowing out
what these guys too much and this is a fine life you know because you as you tune i had brose oh if time brother stiff that wore me you three or four ranks below me but they were
professional and they understood the line between and they understood and they respected the position and and in other guys that were the that same rank lower rank that i could i
couldn't give that kind of closeness to and so that's one of those things that you know well we talk about a lot with companies is it different from the different people in your
company is ill not saying you can't blow out with people and also that doesn't mean you don't have awesome relationships with your people because that's what you want you want to
have assimilation is with the people that are working for you because they're going to do that much more for you and you can do that much more for them and it becomes a functional
winning team because everyone cares about each other as actly there's a dichotomy there you know is are we being stirs a lie are we superbos floated that what is that line that
line is a thing that you find for what makes you really hard with the relationship pieces that it's different for different people and i had some guys that was an e five and a
sutunin i was loose in it and they were my total brows and there's another guy thats me five and i got to keep a little of distance just then they sure that they the day stay
professional right and so this is this is galenist and great lessons learn for any one runner a business especially if young the elements not just young people cause i see he's in
he's asking de saint gaoleress ship and college i'm sorry then alike being an entrepreneur business man were women whatever is its learned you know you may have a gift of
something to counting you may be good sails person goodmorning or some nobody's born with the gift minacciando it's built it's crafted over time and you have to fail and fall flat
on your face and yet punched in the face the figure it out we so but what's good is an unfortunate there's there's like those lessons that your parents tried to teach you but you
didn't listen to you and a mouse some stupid if you are even aware of them in after a good about like some one at hearing what you're saying right now that they might not
recognize it before and this is a chapter in extreme undersuit agony of leadership and norgate you got to be i can't be so close to your people that one more party we go through
this five but the awareness of it is it gives people a percentage chance of maybe is it falling flat on their face may be the just stumble nerve to recover it so this is you know
classic i fell flat to the s to do hurt to oh i would like a what happens so i was i was sad man at first then i got angry and then i got even now no i won't basically what was
his will we are not expendable he these words and these demands and will talk to you monday morning okay so what happens we do a little recon get into the computers see the
communication between all of them what they thought about me what they thought about my wife what they thought was going on with a company half an hour later a in my vehicle
dividing conquer you're not then a tell me because in that paper said do not come and see us individually do not seek a shout do not try to separ on a us and have a conversation
and that's exactly what i did by the way from the impotant this is a horrible move they are making new asbad of a mistake as you make in a leader because of what they should any
one of them could have done it said perogou ent you only think it's gone there this is what we're thinking we don't know what's going on the company you guys workin on this random
the projects that are like your projects we should be working for other companies if the war can you tell us what in god's name is going on seanmor that's one of those obeisance
and you can rob into roman said hey guys i i i a boahdin not telling you be limited you what a what income we have all in i was in action nothing nothing so this is what we're
going to do things or ride you could give him a plan we onderstand why you were doing what you're doing in here and it will be good so both sides of the change command there are
actually making a grievous mistake sad mistakes my and i learned from that that that was a madame transparent person as it is you askatoon and i will answer it i am just a dumb
kid though i didn't want to show weakness to them is what i was thinking it because i didn't want them to feel like the needed to go find another job i don't want it to think that
start talk like all the company's going to shut downs making my own stories i didn't trust they would make the right decision if i told them this so i just carried on to try to
push through and you're right it it was a stake to not share it with them that as it would have been i was we were bleeding as a company but they were in plaiting to keep in it
would have been easier just to let them decide what they wanted to do after and hindsight telling them where we were as a company how the recession had affected us but i didn't
know an so i divided in conquered a mining i got a line careered to the first one's house now on the door john we're going to talk or you have no job john still with me right now
he works organises i was so passed it i was crying a little bit i was destiny been so pierced like you just like you cried with negative as question trelyon not even your canoe
may only as i guess i guess i'm done by being a kid even i'm talking like twenty one of my twin three twenty four solita i as i was in the deep at that point were agriot
adnotatione toledo my everincreasing erenomenes o'malley ready so pity like started crying on his lyring is not like anger does not lead the tears in my informe in iawens leaving
it i asianism i get it but being angry that that's okay but you know every one's will is a kid dyin i was a year at ethurrkur kid at ye togeether soneremo i will have i didn't
have a man to you like when i was a kid had navidad one man tore my friend my my buddy's father because it is a single sinlow was yet a just we barksdale of time we resourceless
and i'd have a man turn alaka father figure around all the time to see otio i just i i worked off of pure drive and motion yet yes and again i'm not trying to be a jerk and all
i'm having fun with it i might have let but it's his son your so pissed so petty got freaking tears in your eye the at and you go to john an you kin you want his job or not cause
if you say no you are not talking to me you do not have a job and you've got a new house boase had even the car okay a one down when it won in the game still in an again yet it as
i drove to the other's houses they either didn't answer the door and hid what answered the door and said i can't talk to and closed it okay artis you know they aeneases path which
is a good the message to everybody there when you don't want to talk to somebody you're not solving anything you don't have any you don't ye ye now now i'm not saying that there's
sometimes where i'm so mad at you that might be come back to morrow brow cause right now the iago good yet as i also made a cry yes my masonry so militated than genius weak but
that is that to the point is so seriously if there if there's a problem can't you're not going to talk about it you're going to sound like that kid right there the answer to a
camp i can not you right opposes the door that's that's not a way to get anything soles are there times are new will radiance ipecacuanhas that happens as long as you know you are
going to this you both know that it's so saw the wool you know like i feel like with respect to business and stuff like like if you working with a client you may like banged with
a client and in blakeleys livened we did i shut this down and discuss it like in forty eight hours that's learned over time not when you're a kid you just want to get after like a
onoravano was super hard core and this is an again you know people a little bit agressive yet people people want to hear me say like nachricht you go in a say you either talk to
me nor you don't have a job fer the thealed bleeding those so was that the right choice i don't know but the the the approach from me would be like um hey let me explain you it's
going on and then you can think more about your decision because right now i'm telling you what you've decided to what you presented to me is so far off base that if this is what
you want to make your decision based on i'm telling you what i'm going to have to do is let you go because i haven't told you yet but we don't have any money and i'm paying you
out of my own pocket right so if you don't like that and you don't want me to pay you or my own pocket or any more i'm actually good with it but if you want have a job and you are
tried make this thing work let's have a conversation and that's close to exactly what i would say now he exactly a hunted present to reason a making this point as an ihai had me
upon social meditate asolo question in any pre preface the question he says i am a very direct guy like you being he's direct like me he may says an i give feed back and makes
people mad and rubs them the wrong way and and i'm just you i wrote back a look man i'm direct on twitter which is a hundred and forty characters and i'm amid answering seven
hundred and twenty questions freyo know rapid fire and and so am direct winsomeness what is your you want your average a daily diet consistent stake next on entertaineth not a
asellio like i'm having fun like that is that's the fun part of you know interacting with people through social media that not how i'm treating another human being face to face in
real relationship on or in valsante amusing tact amusing maneuvering amarylla ing the situation i'm setting things up on missing the most tactful person in fact not only i might
not goin to rub them the wrong way i'm in a rub them in a very nice way to it you good about the comrade at the samoan how real croodin is is that you know your will like you said
the what my little quota was is what you would say now back then you're young you're bleeding bleeding his toe and you say you know what is nagging at me about finances re you
know how that i'll build two young kids thought i the night you know it gets it gets tricky and your trying to maintain this so so just a lyin that what you do said you you said
you know how it is and to be honest i don't know how that is because i was in the military i gotta pay thick every two weeks pahia kitsie health insurance taking care of i had
house taking care of its it's a huge it's it's it's it's actually a feeling i don't know um so i e got now that feeling in my hiking only imagine i can only imagine what i would
be thinking if i was in your shoes at twenty two years old with a wife to screaming kids and i don't have any money so i shack okay and sum i will tell you about that feeling is a
feeling i never got to go back to as we as i divided in conquered it did not go my way so meaning that it people were saying they can't talk with a hitchener went ned laughed
their having the homes whither so i made a decision what to do it told to my wife she's like water we and into i said well i said they all think there expendable except they're
not because there is not a person in this world that is so good altheetor egagon him got they think they're not expendable there's our persons world that is so good at their job
they can't be replaced dear that choiseul most none but you adoyous a lot to tell the people in the world so what did i do hate de trash bags gets on i went up to that studio and
i scraped their desks individually into trash bags and it felt good i didn't even me the say that like but it felt good sliter ally siestra it tied it up what do the next one my
wife to suppose it all into the bag this is good levee dragged all the shadowy care what was in the bag i don't care what they had on their desks my property you are ship in the
trash bag the organised nothing is scraped dragged them down the stairs gently cause i'm getting a few under was not as in not generate down the stairs we were in this this like
studio you know third floor studio that we had built out fris beautiful right that monday morning the art ireton who i cut my teeth with came down he lived in bangor maine we say
bangor came down and we were sitting in there it was glass like the class and it's like you could see screw it being inside but from the outside you can't they all got out of the
same vehicle kinda killing and chuckling like they owe me they own this company and they walked in the door and there we were sitting there with a trash bags and they went from
giddypate the sadness and their faces turned white there is your ship take it now is it done hum that was tough i said a few words but i was that going to be held hostit this
situation in business i i say you've got like forty years of being a maker i diesbach recently at an innovation for i i wrote a speech for an innovation expel is zero a twenty
year learning twenty to sixty year doing and sixty to eighty hopefully are enjoying the fruits of a labor anything good in life takes ten years so my first ten years had passed
but i still have thirty to go and so i knew i was in don but the pain of the situation in the in the experience i grew exponentially overnight we had salvaged a small part of the
company which was as was this we called it weber right was like online software like everything is now like declouet there was no cloud there was this system i was able to
salagassus it had a go aaoo little customer base of some incustomary made paid monthly who just like recurring payments i just to use it and so i found a buyer for it and then
negotiation to a long time and in that long time he had no income no money and so whether i do i started selling sit there bikes four wheelers snowmobiles every non essential idle
i owned got sold trying to maintain keeping my home right which we had built a wife an eye in the forest which was our dream home just a tiny little fifteen hundred square foot
timber frame bowering money from family and i in our parents and then no wing the situation were in so the actually just like giving a food whatever that whole time i had to
maintain like the supercomputers to try and sell this thing at all this ship happening in the background and i think it was like eight months and i finally sold it and two hundred
thousand dollars and aias which was cheap for what we had built an extremely cheap but i was in a position where we hadn't nothing laughed at freaking nothing left and now it was
super super challenging and i could have elesi turned to substances which i didn't i never been into substances i could have easily just fell off the deep end and felt like a
failure which i knew i wasn't my wife wanted me to go find a job she said theosbyta i had oomanoo a eaglet a nine to five i she can't do this i can't do this be i can't do this
during that eight months ten you've got a insoid babe i will find a way to make this work and i believe everything happens for reason it happened for a reason and i dis kept at an
a pack my head and i pushed and pushed and pushed forward and it wasn't freakiness i it was supper souper hard like on us but she stood by me in the wavering she stood by me never
once did she want to leave did she not believing me or not trust me which is what i needed and like i said earlier about filling the glass back op it was desole friend dry bone
dry and she just put a little bit back in and we kept moving to kept shanging not during that time period well or looking to sell the old company are you hatching plans or or is
you got to be a hundred perennous on to some monomania create tipity dove to the bottom of the hosen done i was i don't i've never experienced depression in now but i i i get it i
felt a little bit like a failure on i thought a little bit like a failure but i knew i wasn't so i recommandai thought i would just push through it i just push though the thought
and what got me through a lot of that was training to git where i could expel my energy and use my creativity which i thought a lost in dugitigrada sport art and that kind of kept
me i asika those in torpentine so i could maintain some stability but tactically your focuses sell scargate when mealmaker look good let the shoulder the numbers that are common
in for our few kinds you got a projections could be if that's all you're doing the that's all you're doing and you're you're thinking when you sell that thing you're going to have
enough and you'll figured out later can worry about a run now exactly so you make the sale i made the sale for the first year we get a monthly check to like five grand a month or
something not the full amount just like five grand among so it during that time i decided to just take twelve months and figure out what comes next and that twelve months i
traveled round the country training judita filming a thing we call be weekly because that's a o'fashion about and so we travel round in a compact can train and all this stuff and
as like a excuse to train you is let's it this news letter and after that twelve months and trolling around at destructed what i wanted to do years earlier i had designed this
loofer a gee brand of the cow came to me i get my dears in the morning one morning i sat down and just boomed on five minutes and now sometimes you can have a client come in when
you stow anien a hundred hours on a friend and low go i know tell don't realize how much lolchos and sometimes you just nail it like ten minutes don finished it just as he'd like
getting hit by lightning just bon ton the that's what happened with this organ thing i wanted a start a brand cause what i had done what i had learned and over that year of
driving round and training and reconnecting with myself and my family was that i loved building brands and products i love is taking something from nothing like a drawing in
making it in the something and i had an aversion to the screen and in that space because of the new media thing i was always on a screen and i i i just i told him an i i i need to
like do something physically like half something physical and it have a physical thing to do as i was in armor and among artists that i sipapo i need a thing to do so indeed i had
seen that that that uniform like hadn't changed an i don't know they've been workclothes for a thousand years but it how judo the a hundred of years jogue years persil same thing
sam salatin harpsicon uniform this is what you were as a qui qui do you wear the hautton der armor with like wicking staff and you've got air helmets instead of leather helmets
and you know he just all these innovations in other sports indeed ship we had nothing in wearing a bunch of distrait cottonballs and you know sweated in deed that stretches and
stinks bad i socked and so to start i was like okaghsery asked darton leading you you now the vision yesedees haven't progressed right you know that they can be made better
tetebout actually eat and so you say okay i want to make of the best vein the world yea donet's visitin yes it is and you have to start somewhere he asked star somewhere so i i
didn't know anything about textiles but i knew about design and i knew about the human body and you know how human pity worked in and in college sport ulan about that a lot o one
canes mechanics of the body and they re train you hunt arunning college like the you all on the same he do exercise is still your all striking force drinking with your foot go all
round the same and so i designed like a deep handsome i was like a cow boy cut because i knew that in gudetown you like your your squatting a lot on your knees and the material
pull oputu leg but pulled down your but so you like got pamerait socks so i designed like so tharypas came up to your hip soon you squatted it with pull from your hips right and
seat of a cross to the top your leg and did did some coincons like that that is a a time to go so we launched a gee lee where we imported the key from pakistan one gee i was in
the basement of my house and i i what nestor the brand so i had the basement socked here hans age we shot a pot o wissanotti and i lodged it through beazely and book forty grand
as like who which you didn't have any geese no not no keys but i wanted a prove that we could do something different and i trusted i could make it happen now in events as i two
hundred yes soul i've got something here i've got something good here and i knew a new adventure was going to start and my wife spun up in a positive way no o she just like for do
you doing a like comitantibus cot sick like ishmael attacked nefert like the pejoa do this again you can't you giacinta another company you know you'd sing just and i used this
word lightly being around i warriorlike you which no warrior here a promise that p t s t a business right that's a real thing like she she has she had like piteously of business
because of what we had gone through and selling everything in the feeling you get that you keep you gekke this feeling for me i used it for drive for her she used it for i don't
ever want to feel that again that makes me like ill for me it was like i'm never going to feel that again i'm going to make sure i never feel that again and i'm going to do
something about it so i did it anyway he started a company origin and that's when it began to thousand eleven eneroth thousand even so do how do you start it this are you begot
one gee or yield forty grand worth of one get a yeave right what what readiest and you know at this point you wanted to make him in america had you figured that part out in no no
i i i let me think we made you do make in america when we want to you i make them in america and so i started like calling all the factories and a mane like a henhouse stop ace
can you saw this now moray foiled know man as traditionally had a lot of industry up here manufacturing big time especially when we when we were kids yet ah you know big brands
out here that billet you don't have conestogas you ten minutes away sold out dexter she had in shoe leather on state townships away when huge companies alboline bates twenty
minuay so rich hair tangmarg but apparel and may little different we made shoes and we will fabric and stuff like that but apparel wasn't wasn't the norm so what i did is very
that basement with ike an' an is goin to make this note that the altos a lot of this companies aureoling about they had built all the stuff you frasers a lot of them at last year
so that that's the a i a engleton a gradual of them had laughed at all being they still make him stuff here the rest laughed gone so ill so make him suffer to get no balance at
all you aperture he new balances so as i cacawee going to make a bolt that's where an to wear in a compelled you get to be the year so there's a sky and loose and who ran his
company and i i called moblike inessaeans is like okandandas by and louise one of the manufacturing hobbes of manetime walked in as a oineos like hop this is what i want to make
it a tout for martial arts sick and i said i just need some maconachie to do that and like i got five hundred bucks cash i can spend on it um can you give me something to practise
with and so he sold me machine showed me how to thread to bob in an suedeland and like a cake we filled it so we knew how to do it sorelie timing him doing this though i okay so i
took the sewingmachine in that i put it in my basement next to the desk i like ye alittle nissean my wife as you like shades or head looney loolie had sold the prior so we had
sold forty thousand dollars in gaze at the neist so she had got in off my back a little bit so that machinery sat there and as we looked at trying to like make this key and i
didn't say order make a get america i just said out we're going to make a egina change the gee we're going to change the game first so he in re started the import game everybody
else is doing it everybody's telling me manufacturing dad i did a few fan calls pretty much everybody's like a you can't really do that and so is iokanaan the whole time of
thinking like something's not right here that i can't do this and i just couldn't put my finger on what it was so i imported it owed to thousand eleven and ah may we started to
touseled into two thousand twelve that a few patches did whole who you live in isaac thing geese but we promoted it with innovations we had here was still shit you know what comes
right down to it but the geas yeah man newsese is little using old textiles atitudes in big old said you imported one from pakistan and then when you do like cut it up and read
design it is some where did you send the asiento them and they petasai design like a everything i will traylike a tentacle want to hear and want to need pats her they are all here
the you felt loops because i don't want to untie the the all the stuff in and then they and they send it ye done ye elkish so you know you know in pakistan am dere like the
manufacturing for martial arts is like the madefaction hobbies called sale cotter actually like a almost like migratories at conatis cogitator es and but the workers of the same
the same divine all this in guy's head or whatever rotate around all day ye and they we got a garrotter here get to make the other inordinate they worked for pennies and pennies
sip ye so we did the importing thing and we started to grow rapidly we started to make money and at that point my other business i was making cinamon and come in then i got kind o
like a chunk of money like hundred as i aroosi can like take a deep breath and rally push this thing and so i pushed it and we started selling more and more that i came out with
his really cool back back called a mondiale back back moncada back technical back back and we sold that tonantis in a home and then we came out with his product for grip training
we were panting and they were just as a bone case at what i did i once i got on a rose i design this designed we were just selling selling selling and during this time i was also
competing then i'll cause a male assanow more on her hittite and you want a test yourself against the best nor so i was training hard i had ended up winning the the am the
metamorphosed i had seen in other company release a product for grip training that looked exactly like ours will apodectae your air chaining me as called in a ring hang also it's
you it's like a the gee and then collar gianettino at the was cool there is awesome and as i those bastards ripped a off an that wasn't taken by manufacturing mensam note come
repressive panted that you know boola okay so i was competing i ended up going to canada i won the world prochilous apron belt at the time on the world procris in the black of the
vision could te you know they they put the divisions together as you know for that was in tetouan twelve now they think they separated him now again but so i got to go over to
adianople in the world pro and as a brown belt in that black bell of vision when sitting there before my match and i'm supposed to fight a shiny had berwin the core finals of the
open division here and i i am in a say this it was bad seeming like the seeding of the brackets was not good okay am like i had in my bracket a guy from a brazil a gtarstang and
may under dolon so j didn't want to fight so he is so i thought the teiresias he was much smaller and it was athletic in tuitioned up pointing and then jake just at ike didn't
want to fight and so then he coachmanship we have war it is good an i had of lads couple of sackimas very close ah the prominent anoenoe time world janinfante best of all time and
gisele big time awesome guide any aloose so but the seating was bad like wapatoes in in it like there's a couple of other guys i don't know just it might division could have been
tougher and i would have got my asketell kay so that we had a war and it was awesome and may be i would have won if i had worked harder or maybe i would have won if that girl from
poland didn't walk by me or right before the match with an origin genadien loo on the back and what was on mayor cut of a gee like the gate you designed yea and you see girl from
poland whose competicion she walks by yet it was i was actually ah it was a it was a the pitthean year i was the panther's lowood different low on the back but are whole thing
year design yet look deaneville i knew it was my manufacture and that everything clicked they ripped off the arahang rip trainers okay okay but what am i to do because i'm locked
into these guys now so i had to strategize so i went out a lost and the corfins gotiate worse recension my life because i'm an eighth and i can't be stuck in a freaking seed for
fourteen hours that socks and on the ride back i was talking to the t who had become good friends with it he was kind of like an a tricky position life he was still with his
structurally in justino kind of what to do he wasn't progressing and he said his telemetering a i've got a get like i have to a full work i hope before i can actually train with a
guise because he was so good he just was in getting it you know and you know the macaoidh you know bes california i waldmeier is a say said the ego the andiatarocte as where he
went so he was fingering his whole thing else so colors the oueen he was bigger in his whole thing out and ills imintanout is like this from lamani think of dilatator wot'll war
the airplane as i could who looking him me like a now on tell factorychimneys pose as said i'm not competing any more done it all he wanted to do his wentworth pion ship so we can
like help each other a little bit that plain right back like another you don't bouncing ideas of each other the compression ideaness ion so i capacities bed o my manufacture and i
was like over skylike this is bullshit you breaking i didn't say that so you folking rip off are intellectual property and sold it to other brands and he said business is business
they yourii moment in your life where you just turn on and you're like i done i knew at that moment what we're going to do like it was clear it became clear and i knew the
challenge in front of me and i knew it was insane and i knew it couldn't be done and i was like it's happening prophesies i i got to tell you is a little bit of it what happened
to wright after right after that i went out to the world championships to compete because i had already signed up and that was going to be my ear we were there and there was a
brand pair and i walked up an i want by a night in his double take us like what i other and there is our mondvaca right there but with radenego on art i went up to the gayandi was
like do i said got any original ideas and everybody there's a bad as except for this guy who doesn't do jogues nothing right just some shall be due who wants to capitalize on the
success of commands and you guert in california and nothing on inaccuracy and i was like that is a week i said in bull ship i said get some original friendes i went down walked
down and myself and ah the deck o or pismire and in the as wife and my wife were down there and i told my wife in spendid she ever she went up there and she flipped out on the eye
the man to bring it at hungering in it five two one hundred and three pounds a furyation it was awesome we flew back and in the picture was already clear this is just like added
motivation stated bonivon i call one of my boys ten and and john was already workin for me from my last business the sole survivor soevior moved back to farmington where we did as
we grab that like that tape put around trees and you are m the flag trees and contained a light trees the cut i kinda my card john i have seven acres a property which is okay
listen seven acres is not all walk of property and manucy property in man for five hundred dollars an acre in some places privatae so littus make that clear seven acres is not a
lot but we have seven acres of land in the woods and so i like flageot like wirginia factory here so would you a flag it out like this and this is based on the architectural
design to your engineer put you for your factory he is not original i sagatiated be about a visits looks like a factory eyehold all caille the body and he brought a chain or over
the sikaso it would just part ramawatti cutting trees my father lockyer with a chipper we chipped it out okay we stumped it would pull the stumps out were pretty resourceful here
and may never do yankee ingenuity that term for sure that happens so what we do we cleared it we did a little bit earthwork i got on the compact and compact that all the sand and
portola had had some some guy some company a sorrow to bunch of eastern white pine and had my buddy built belabor factory barn and we just spend it on ateste eight hour oteseonteo
hours around the clock we just built this thing from the ground up myself my brother friends family though just we did it we built it i wish to asianchi and he leadeth i added at
a garlike water we do that's where began and and we you know a thing is is like if you listen i'm i'm all for planning i i i like to plan the what's going to happen in the like to
like you say execute like to execute that plan but do it and i like to lead the plan and oh i'm i'm shooting when it comes to like a always makin sure everybody's living up to
their expectations like as part of the plan if they both into it you better fully votin it there's no room for like slacking like a film work until midnight you don't work until
tissaret you're not leaving so as that we did and a pusher to like a push push push like to see how much i can get out of some body to push them to their potential and see where
they're breaking points so i can learn about the person but also get the best out of them so we did it we bittacy and ah that's where started so then comes to what what's next on
machines yeah and so in machines as some are that are looking for safternoon to sell yes exactly so we'd have light that we had one son machine and we dislike ocasion this is how
you so and i found the old time or bill who came down and he's like explaining the different types as ben in a business for forty years fixing sewing machines and he's just like
you know in his accent his lion you have to who on a single needle machine and a double needle when you get the lock and stitching a chain stitch and you know all this stuff in
dislike who and so i disobedience completely absorbed in that right learning about sewing machines learned at a aeronaut a fix what they were good for the different types of
feeding you know all all everything about so in machines as i cool and now business now any so fabric so i started looking for fabric and guess what they don't make a fabric the
in the united states they don't make fabric that we needed in mexico they don't make fabric in canada ship they don't make fabric forget ease and as like what are we going to do
what would you do i would just built a factory an you have all these selling machines and what would you do for you sir your only option at this point is get it order the material
for that order the material more receives you got that you can to do right i was excreta and so i started looking for like weaving and so like to you know was looking for weaving
like a hay haouses weep and wastepaper as yet hunted thousand yards you know twelve bucks garden ioam just looking looking looking no king and did you ever order any material i
did okay canio you had to sell geese i mean i had it on esanapes minotti now right and i did i had addingmachine pay check for like the first two years of business i didn't take
patrick maybe three i didn't pay myself once every didius note back in dumbeck and dump back weaving was impossible right you're not then a freaking we material so i i did i
importante for that first here and we we figured out how to make a gee and it was a pain in the ass and that first week we finished the week and it called to deconditioned five
pairs of fancetic week and he's like yon really high production i do i was just like one of my doing and i kind of snort in that store you like legit were questioning oh i
spiraled down like oh my god you know you thought you're going to make two hundred gesine and he gardee anson we can you make five five five pairs of pants i was just my boggling
mine boggling and jill was my first etres still with us to eyther on you were talking out earlier do i did not know what to do i was truly at a loss for i didn't have anybody to
die teach me about it a in fact sure line i should set up i cause a knowledge had disappeared out of the state it was gone the folks that used to do that dureth they passed or
there they moved on the snow birds they moved to florida whatever they were round it so i had a lot of late nights and by myself in my basement with a glass o whisky i started to
have that feeling come back o that like failure feeling and i didn't know what to do as i can what did i can myself into you know like wood a do you doing like how do you what am
i doing and that i figured like i can not basically like i can't do this alone typesetting and in the conversation my father in law like jarmaine a talk to somebody who's like an
mare and done that like don't build something from nothing and he's at pete's hat have got a friend that he did some more foreign as bolt order by a fool as ee cecerteans the can
and so we made a fan call to the sky the jaw and leave his last name out and john said he i'll meet with pete he said here's the date time meet me at my lake house so i showed up
at his lake house and i sat down and he shook my hand and he said let me tell you something you are not flocking spatial a mary beat down just at amusing his words and you are not
voting special your ideas are special and nobody gives a ship as i go kate motivation all speaker sir it never ate nobody gives a ship yet i said reality checked he is like a sad
he was what your problem i sumadia we need money to like ainion is a no we need we needn't heeded money to dislike do this till i learn how to do this and fill this and like me to
append i needn't money a capital he goes pet will you and i back your mind thinking you had good capital investor right ears a big galilaeo and maybe this guy's got a few pegs as
you no no i wasn't there for financial a financial i wasn't looking for it was the solution that you saw he did not only collation i need money for this the only salute on him i
needn't money and as he kind of like beat me down in this guy ran like a fifty ma think there handelian dollar company now at that point of fifty million dollars he's got a
retired and done thing in giving his time to me for free to help another kid from industry maine succeed he basically educated me and two hours educated me and i walked away from
that meeting like with a plan a plan of action what was like to for was the the big takai he told me i need to basically find out who i was and do a personality profile ah and
egos your probably what he say and i and f something like that he like destitute motley exactly sure what was so i did my personality profile find out my strengths and weaknesses
and it was spot on was like always ship this is that like crazy and ah they told me here not all in you don't really want to win at this of ino i do then go all in how much do you
believe in it cause is a million pretend people like you he said as a million people like you and the milliard ideas and less than one per cent a willing to go in chase it and go
all in and do it are you one of those people and if you are solved the money problem and solerets of the problems the next day i was at the bank signing my home away with my wife
by my side she re stoked fer a two hundred thousand dollon thou wast offerer to this a as you were saying him there's a big difference you put them together which is when you put
him together makes sense but chasing your goals chasing your dream and being all in doesn't insano the same thing not now if you're all inedin you have to change at you you don't
even know what else do besides chase it right but i think some people they they chase it but the run in like half speed at an oasthouse beadon you got to be uncomfortable that's
basically what i took away from that and he's the one that told me he said pete a wall to you i said i'm thirty which your problem i said only only go join the po gassin some
point in stone i said i'm stuck he lose you got three more chances his absiste you got three more chances is like a few believe in it and he's the one that told me everything in
life everything great takes ten years to build gebildet and be committed cause it's gonna take ten years to build it but if you believe in it you have to go all and and if you got
up put up your house put up your house you'll work your way out of it of venally sits at i did i followed his advice and i went on in he also told me the moment you stop and were
owing you die he said if you stop growing you will die the moment you want to do something different than what you're doing the moment your mind wanders to wanting to be somewhere
else your business also dies and you need to recognize that in that first meeting with him was just i just changed my changed my game and when i sign my name on that lone when i
signed my whole to the bank to receive that check i was later focused is like being in the woods on an early morning hunt when his dark in the sun is coming up in the ninth in a
leaves go right as the sun hits the leaves at the trees and your waiting i for the deer forewater you hunting that's what i felt like about business at the same feeling you get
from that i felt lazarous and it's like everything just opened out like my mind open like the synapses connected in osalik a new pane or was like new that's what i mean by like
you kit he was born an entrepreneur and a born and entrepreneur in idee punched in the face and john punched me right in the nose it was awesome so the next step is you order some
material but that's not your long term plan right and and the next thing you do you go get a make this material ihutmosis we've got to make the material i had called every you
textile company in the united states every use tactician to try in fineness machinery we had to weave our own fabric it was at a sustainable model without weaving our own fabric
there all like a she snackenberg it gets said out have million dollars right seven hundred and fifty grand this is to by brand new luisito limeport on egernia and peterano from
the factory after they build this little nell senoritas going help you run it yet on it up as i just need a million dollars exactly think it's just not in a happen so of ice in
business it's like boxing like it's like you to to it's all about the angles you know people get so stuck on my one angle they can only see that one angle and i desate intestato
the side and i to see this angle i knew mane at a hair tainting i knew there was leaving here at one point and so i went back to that same old timer lewis a man who had sold me my
fur so a machine and i sat as office and i said to her there any looms is it what you mean in like a weaving room like to weave baverelus get my truck an i got in this truck we
drive up one street in get out and this is a mass of build to hanslick a a tantot square put it was like one point five million square he loosely abandoned a few business is in a
front that they've refurbished and is amusing him there and in walks in age this is neither this woman rachel and he says races as pete he's looking for a loom and she goes well
follow me she made me sign a release we went up these stairs and into this old mill five and the floor boards the windows were all broken a saw tooth building into a soft to a
mill buildings and when those rogogin the word was ole punky in like like a bent do and splinted you had like watch where your walking and there's a big green nasty thing sitting
in the middle of floor right there in the whole place and we walk over to it she said i need to get rid of this and like this is a home itches like yehol sheet where is the east
of woman i shutters a company in india bogus both but opthamalia shifted everything overseas and shows i kept this one i kept it here because i wanted to put in a museum so we
didn't lose a her theriagene said and i buy it and she said he has it i watched ship three thousand bucks that's it okay don men in this is he the like i just want to point
thorout the the the the floor is all broke in the windows are broken and the loom as i trusty right out due to his terrors not life this put this thing is disaster when she last
time i would use how many years ago oh sure eighty it was it's an eight three linien eighty three i don't know when the last time i was used but it had it been had any love for a
long long time most of the parts were stripped off of it it was like a frame dislike an infrastructure i said okay i'll buy it i want to buy this little yea so you've got to be a
little bit naive to be in business and think you can accomplish anything asked bottom line and that is pretty pretty driven in native to think that we could we've fabric but i
believe we could so she sold me at and then i called my father in law i said i got a little it's on that heart for of this old mill and lose man and win he to get it out and i got
a quote on moving it and it was twenty five thousand dollars to move it that mike queries like okay said it a bunch of friends we went out there took nine guise eight hours to
move it from the mill of floor to be hedged the building and we had another friend who had a crane and we ended up getting it out and a door trailer and put it in the factory and
then we were like walreddon was awesome there was awesome soul that's were started ah i know it i always believe like if it was done it can be done like if it if if it on in man
we have the thing like men at one point was ninety per cent fields how to become ninety per cent fields you know a hundred years ago hands in daylight hands and daylight right how
are these mill buildings built hands and daylight that's it these people they got after it i mean why because if you don't you die that's it you're going to die so you let a farm
you've got it o how to build a house you got it one startair like that calder of new england is still rich in knowitall passed down we burn wood every body burns with we build our
home shit you know how is everything that's what we do why is everybody saying we can't manufacture we can't leave we can't consett bullshit if they did it we can do it because
they did it with a lot less i found a guy leni when that mill shut down he had a contract to go over to um pakistan back itan of all places to teach them how to run the looms that
were purchased in a month later was nine eleven and he didn't go and he stayed here thank god because he is the last he's like a last one well ask that can actually get this thing
going and make it work again i asked leddy how many people know what you know he said a whole punch as it was whole punchskoye so he let pass his knowledge on us we think no
pattern making for textiles and all this stuff then that's a whole nother story may be for different time but we started weaving fabric and we became vertically in a grated and we
started making the product from rock hotfoot like the first time that thing cratchur catucuseno we with reeked of we were just like his dustlike a we had that we had like the pack
like we had to make pear we and so we did we may peewee like took up per weeper that was a lie from the important fabrics like me we just picked it apart and let he looked at it
and figured out what sirens and the wait and everything so we just recreated it and he turned it on for the first time it how long to clean a thing forty man hours the clean it
like just the need to cleaning before did anything cleaning then we had to bite all the parts a machine and just to get a going in he turned it off with the first time and it was
like and that looked at john my poion lane that's a always shed and then and there comes in iustes a pear wave coming off a loom massolien is like nobody's ever done this nobody's
ever done this and it was i was super proud as i were where friending it we are doing it then we announce it to the world we thought was too that a lot of work to do but ah now we
announce it to the judicial set man now his hat how do i betwane you the colleges otter weaving i do color this tonnelette me that he lay like a lake that i was telling you before
when when i was in the sceletins in the early nineties halt we and have the the the custom dear right you couldn't buy this stuff on the internet from these tactical companies
right right so we we made stuff and we had we had parachute rigors which are the people that packed turrets but in a persuasive got a nice medium duty and some of a heavy duty
showing machine and so we would make our own deer and and oscillate get into it a little bit and i know i had as a lot of shields would have their own um you know sewing machines
and you know you'd make dear and some people be good at it some people could really get it and i was not one of those people and i cast no dithelite trade and you got to give you
things work and regulate the ever societies to yea and so and every time i like start soon it would just you don't fall apart or lingers nast and just may ham and when i see like
the loom with it looks like it dress you out one filtering through the little things and entering through and then you look on the other side and all that gracious there's like
please hundreds of thousands of looks like little pins that are moving you five that are pulling upon and grazing and then it comes out to the sunnees pattern ye and eat makes me
it actually does stress he aimarah i i can't be in there for two long i'm freaking out as fishes in it ocote to these things all ye had my my presence will cause assurances in the
florianora i not allowed to be in there for very long because i like in i'm i got a bit an issue you you know a sulamite issue with dread and so i keep it even to ask keeping a
little distance from the machines to atone to poumpo guys have the magic amateur that but yet i see that and anti even imagine it like you know again as a novice person working
with a so imachine as young kit but he how hard it was for me to do it and then as watched julietta wham wampus hammering you just it's took a such a good class tocaste behave and
and just deceive the loom at all was different parts your saying herself well for one thing but good luck like something once to do what we are doing oh how go ye do it ye have
fun without him no happening not have it and i the way we bought the last loom saartje you it absolutely and in the last bitter knowledge but six it which exists ye it man and so
then you know you you take and you start weaving it and now you start moselles and how to business go and now now you're able to put on something made in the u s a and e se and
that's from the dirt to the shirt a enrooted dirt to shirt right i mean because you'll definis she is the cotton is coming from the eye del teresian tenise spun and the carolines
and shift up to us detectascope train ride on his way suppose to work has old school making ship you know i mean i talked to day a little bit it at a grand opening about like
manners generations of folks that put their hands on something right there makers they need to make something in their trying to cross train these people too typometer it now do
mundane office type of task filing papers answering the phone and call centers these people want to make ship were known in maine for being some of the best craft people in the
world the products that come from man or some of the best products in the world and to be part of resurrecting that heritage is its incredible in one it is our ultimate mission
you know to resurrect our heritage and manufacturing and build old world level quality products and standin it stitch every stitch every every yarn in the weave and that's all
alabout and that's what origins dance for with a little bit more modern look and feel but soaring and manufacturing one hundred per cent in the u s and i why we won't compromise
on that at ever like other companies do when they get greedy and they say well it's time to look at the numbers its time to increase the margins and without importuneous no were
not regis not doing it she not happening i was seeing at bataras four knots of the christening of the uses michelotto obviously named after mimosan it was awesome for me in now i
i in listening the navy from that down in portland and to come back twenty six years later and see what you're talking about what what i knew existed in new england in maine and
and see in the pride that these you know ship builders the iron workers that did it the private they took in that ship named after a absent of a human being and you know that's
one of the things that i tied to original i knew what you are doing up here yea and um you know to kind of get too how we ended up joining forces it funny because you know you
were just some guy you know some crazy guy up and man in my opinion that i'd witana couple of your videos asen it i see a due you know you have the video that shows you pulling
this freaking loom out of a factory and i'm disliking of a of this guisarding i like you and and it actually the onything is for my jim and san diego victory on a may i wanted to
make judiciaria no i was like okay this i i looked around i find one guidance done it ith you we sat like three or four years ago we went at a infor on email and you know nothing
ever came of it because the eye was busy you were busy and just nothing happened but i always assermany know what this guy up in maine he's he's he's doing what he doing it the
right way and what happened was the way we actually got connected was i was on a face book live the talking to people and some one says what kin o gethin i just rattled off i go a
man for you to give you to get your sarnierre good at it to er you just want of food he i go get a give from origin or gemando i go get it i give in there i go this crazy guy up
there he fixed a womersley a room out of a aataroa factory and he reverberate thing with his team and they built you know their doing it their billets of he need ageetation soase
i had i reached out you copies of tuvers even since the time i asked for for a geese's since you knew maor something and i said you know i i'm trying to talk to him and he knows
that this guy eras name is pep i go tell my son wat offhand his this this awesome woman that listen to potashery name is ceramon and she super squared away you know a professional
it would with a become and she she did communicate me with the various things over the over the past year that i've been the doing this deposit not and for assaid oh i'll take
that for action and she contact he contacted you called me then i onontios she just said he you basically she's like have you heard of the sky jackwell in can do not sorry i had
my head off my as for the last five years try to build his factory no factor and it was like your like whoo and then so you know what do i do i dig in like holy shit like disguise
making some wave aisen so i i did lowrigan and then i reached out do after that and and and what autois teinty what we were going to do a amount back and forth a couple of times
on email and in find me you like a an with little go to skye by a hazy la cause we'd be i to day you know i do in de something you like that one to somebody on dominoes fiction
figured out set many a motherlike up we do skip cap so i i i have my meetings like skedule saberin all day show and i blocked two hours of my deaths progative to get this
conversation going a banto hours were warding on skyabus apperture out what we can do so we end up talking on skittering laughing hawking land yelling and the alligator after i
got off my wife goes it sounded like you were talking to you that's not botherin an it was just you know it was i lose for me it was you know the fane that i believe in as as an
american as a person as a new englander it was like a you had the things that i didn't have right like you know frontier were making things were building things but we don't have
reticulation we don't we didn't we went on or doing the way i want to get it done and so you know i'm saying he let let's join forces he absolutely and from my perspective of
course i was like the tudwal has like that at one tell my wife other man is guy he's he's he's on another level and we had we had been like looking for somebody i remember talking
with the deck or in the lake injudiciously ah you've got all these world shams and then you have like the flavor of the monk guys with like a fancy get stuff and would just it
just never part of our plan to sponsor duetto world champions right because what we were trying to build his like much bigger than that and like man we be talking for like a year
like we need to weed a fine somebody a partner somebody with somebody that like represents origin through and through in multiple ways this is it possible you we will not find
this bersonin a possible and then we talk here your europe we were talking over to day this is this is classic cause i didn't remember this so for those you that noathing about
negotiation fetinia car purchase or one ever one of the things one of the tactics of negotiation is you don't give a number forsooth echoes to buy the sunglasses he any says how
much of these i don't say they're tin box because what if you was willing to pay twenty rights so you know if if he says how much of these i go well you know what you want to pay
for him and he should say well you know i don't know one of the worth too and so peigan otacilius more than that i'll be caius it was strauss like what he gets he while you've got
to you've got to de value or show value me so going back a word wi will ye well yeah yeah but you know it is it's like you know back and forth battle battle badly and then i
katatiatatas of one ever of something and and i was to to you don't like don't just give him if i knew what if he had to go on as you will you and number betrand's know he's give
me ax and and i didn't remember to his three torriani remembered the seisas deal of values probably ax and i went to her wagenhals we little play in his demeanor like a actually
that is what like both the intimate of us realize like we were just let let's just get it list do this but actually you know i bite your busy year and so we and we actually we
both definitely got along we we i mean i think both of us felt really solid about the eperson but we didn't quite figure out how to wiener how to make this war you rise lyle's got
something that he's put years of blood sweat dears into i've got something that i've been doing my my life has been to get to hear and so we just don't quite figure out why all
this is in a work so we just you know we kept in touch little bit of conversation over the next um the you know couple of months and then i knew i was going to maine you hit you
you can have i got ask you something now you do you you knew you comneni knew you were coming to maine neither of us like we didn't tax back and forth into last minute because i
knew that that you were coming to maine i ha did you were you planning on a meeting when you came to man the whole time i definitely knew we needed to meet yet ye be he's like you
are ill feeding in alaetheian always put you in eyeshot an idea he so that was an islana was like the meeting who will also toine we met up in portland a we had dinner we actually
both brought our wives and a inimy wife is always too busy to do anything business wise with register she was super stott even be around and meet a man in everything and you know
you we sat there our wise don't even know what they were doing as i i were just into the one were as one in and at the end of the night we vitreous and we shook antonine it there
we were good we were grasped that deal at was awesome if it was awesome for both of us it was possom for everything that both of us one which he needed and it betune into not even
both essterday and that was awesome and i think one of the best like lessons learned from from me what is just an incredible opportunity at how i see opportunity in crafting a
deal is making sure that your boat getting what you want and you both a little bit uncomfortable so that you continue to feel a little bit of the struggle to make shore you can
take it over the goal line you're too comfortable you become complacent bit off a little more than you can chew and you re going to be chewing from much longer so that's it
someheimer ant it was awsome ye exercitatione knows i mean i've been saying it like we're partners you know we were partners with with the poncas and what what aconite doing for
the last couple of years and what were you ben has been done for the last five years seven years but a fight five year levenside osit years and and at the end of the night when we
got done eating our stakes in portland maine u we shook hands and and dishallow you've described his like a perfect storm which is one of feels like to me titillation in lossing's
the perfectionate perfect storm eh um and in so that's what's going on is that the nino we've got ah this and we joined forces and that we we both compliment each others you know
infinites of our business we complement each other weaknesses in terms of our personalities we compliment each other's weaknesses and we were and the best part about it is the
whole time that were doing it were actually laughing or asses off in each other i have a reim which is which is what it's all about so that's where we're at that's why we're here
i towahs why were you by the way her farmington mean in the origin factory twenty thousand square feet we're going to end up with how many employees in here in a year how many
place we nonproperty in a year tootity forty fifty and in some where in there you know between thirty and fifty that's in a year but remember this is a start were starting and so
on five years we have a lot of people a yah were and people ask but what are you to make everything and i say were going to make everything everything that i use in my life i want
it made here in america from the short to the hats everything in natrona do beanes ah polyander who hands only you know what i was at a store the other day oh i like a hardware
store but he made one when they sell or close an i said to myself i don't let's just get obviously in thinking about this all the time now you know it's hard hard to look at work
clothes and you say of course american workers they would want to wear american made clothes and where these closmadene not made here and then i made americanisation hands um so i
i think paramita no prisoner scenario and we're going to do after it wanes kind o take no prison we are going to chase and the big dogs look out look out listen and look out and
natata's not in like an eagle with thing that's the truth ye listen and look out yes and like i said to day when when you when you re came to over fire that of manufacturing and
the you re kind i mean just talking to talking to the imployers is what they want to do how to perettis is what they're made to do that's right and like you said they want to take
these things in build them with their hands so got it and that opportunity been taken away in the last twenty five years and were bringing it back and that is awesome preciate
glad have you patois ah that's what we did at goethale anama brother speaking of what we do sir why don't you do what you do i have a class in you askhabad you find it poetic that
the organ logo is that circle remember when you're getting shirtfront politeness any ooeeehah about anna you have an origin logotheti era it is a bill again in and of itself is
like a circle yes actually it is a wave is heard it's actually like a recurvis at what that logotheti's the flow did you giulo the surf flow the stores a wave is what that is
that's it breaking simboli is what i call it aeirai but the sirani ranavalona in groves and vales leaven remembers that adhere ber ee that paulician was nosegate there go noat
origin of all nasrani the industry or we call that layers the story anyway pekingers got it and support by the way spot the spot as an yourself or gin made out calm speak of
levavasseur the so good to know what you got gee so that's the thing from the beginning people asked what's the kioge we know we know now hardly understandest now hundred per se
you now you have like a higher key you know alloyance selection so yes for i do think a eolico were about to lie below up or manufacturing um in the stoary en grand opening to day
at broughton right one yeast heaping things up over the next war time for him we've started ramping over the next forest forty eight weeks let's say we're going to be hiring other
sixteen people we put another looming a factory so the three limes now and we're going to be weaving nings like like fereal syce i aramaean elaborate you just come come to man and
see ye any time in the factory come cackle like it when had he short coming out that i wearing a boy cause they're strain at my best short hat of a hiawatha half in the you want
to say to ye now won't pay i get that all the time he went as the you know either not to you little bit you don't but yet these are fraid up the better worcestershire people say
whinstane t o you're talking about the eidenai yeeres yesterday and i and i do believe that it might be a little bit more work on pete and compared to my end littlebath you don't
know from a prime if you go from like the level that your currently cruising at it may be you both have to travel the same bit and raytrating alatamaha antitank you're right an ye
but not just deserit no no i also ardou know peril everything is yea i gartsherrie like we have a partner that knits knits all the favors hours away or something everything
everything is a source and may he in ole make all our own compassion apparel like cotton so and sublime die something mention everything you say a compression of peril yet i still
called rascar it's a rather dowdy don't i hate or freshness know it's not just a rascalities for curing the right but but but like the like like the panebianca esistito don't we
still say ye got a new rashanali we still soliman sure that as i wasn't like her in some one at the jimsie did you check out this new compression but in onaweron there is they do
say that air see like in football football yet if you'll sit some company that the advertising compression a ia yeah that there on my only meet a rash guard the trianon on an all
you all me you do get her rarely very textiles different than what you used to like like the warwick we use our art textile for the rash card or tight through arrows is different
and you just called him tight i did because patch i am no idea what is that his olotoraca fornia it's definitely called state yet that it and under even where that work on from
breath paihaa when you keep your ankle as a snare your outline batterstown why do they incontinent you i bet you we did the potage down your leg langton a literator foot you just
take over in all tisserand fools but instead of your ankles under your sofferto where ever you shoe over everything amewican or stop doing because in that as one we call him come
rushing by homilist cachemaille you know earlier we got kind of like wrapped around or we outside dracut me being sensitive about something was not insensitive sure tight you're
not down for tana dod right here no not wantin an abatis yeoman at the invasion shirts there you compression sure compress and rash pants rathgar pants at doesn't make sense
etretat even tho they do preferable servitor did you do that burn oh god you don't want people we don't why a lot of people were compression pants and compression shirt in judea
the prevention of the dizzy in the folk yet the righthand want the hang horribly than a wanton or whom they don't want you know whatever very mercy people wear that in the act the
people that i know that where it do they seem to believe in it no he out level of it's not like a like the what's the some protection brennabor oriembourg you be a fifty there's
no anti ring worm percentage rating right right it is nothing general and but i might cruel bel right pro like but ladegast from growing in the material allies if you wear like a
compression sir and impression pantser then you're not rubbing your skin against some savage that came into the gym roof bring warm right right i have less percenting with him too
by the year yet on rowing with a tangle and his run were monolithic yeh you not need that see you don't want that i do reason to wear compression dear rescousse the board for the
rascas regular now turned not like the rash gardeuse to the one you put on and then they untainted you talk maneant tuckman they designed to state talkin so input em on and the
way the fibers fleck and ben with your body it's not your mothers or grandmothers rash garden so when it enythin tuck then catenella tuck in a rathgar right or do you you ought
but undine a bowing adagietto that's all women wilderies in places make you were rash or under your gee akaiti think it's good to have a rasori don't wot of people think that it's
not traditional i mean i israelite i like the barrier i like to like to know rash or the i like the barrier um between the the the fabric and the skin like the compression casares
muscle you get more you laid your straight performance of omens yet gone absolutely think slides a little bit better on a rash gitanas your skin once it's all sweated up and
sticky so that's why use it and i'm whareherehere chester teheragian the the you know yet you e would be happy if we all wore as far she of our black belt that our jim female hum
and and she is still a girl so things like chest hairs yes not have you about about half she begs me to where you don't something under my gate she so far failed peleiadeo um for
you know ether thing is you we antalao origin man dotcom is supplements it absolutely so on the body and in nobody there you go sit and gothaner going to put everything you need
on your body and everything you need in your body crill yes really that's the that's the one now it's crillitrilkril this hot you know you'll be happy to know that pet night we
like to make things happen and you know obviously i'm a big fan of creil frinstance so you know i was i used to be a pan of white tea hum a big fan and i drank it a lot and
eventually i said you know what i need and this jocolate he if i and so i dissimilar thing happened the with chloe i i want to have cloged crow so you know what were making good
drill ye me actually we like to call it jacob supernal that jock as super gone what will make that alone quality on top of that we got a little again little did you we need doing
maintenance if any german as when we are active when we're chaining it you when we're jack and big steel were are turned in and everything can littlestone so we might not admit to
it in loblolly would admit to crying rising son of public situation yet have her i'm comfortable with my mattenheim over here he extendin cry cry if my wife says you the only time
you cry is babies and belts and sonnets footed and some one as a kitten all letting no no generals and wedding now so we got another another saying we're coming out with it's a
joco joint warfare for your joints go to war against the pain inflammation gollectin in england in helanthami yea we ate i been taking it for since we since we originally
formulated a an i got the samples i went on a hard core and if he gets a letter of the board i ate about that i have like bad back from sports and treat her needed this bulging
disk didn't you surgery severe arthritis i can train seven days a week if i wanted to as matter of fact we have our mesmerian campus week trying every day yet every day that's it
joint warfare it keeping it real well so that stop we it be manufacture i bent on the samples for what a month and a half m and now it's been being manifactured in america shack
and very close by right by a parlor right and in so contenteraide now pre order it and that way we can get a get a feel for how much as we got a bunch coming mwenni forgot how
much of a bunch is that actually means it so kinda like with jocolate t i didn't do that i did it all the jacatala's gone a heterogeneous and and then that was gone and people
were really angry because we youknow you have drank away tea and then you don't have it all of a sudden you know you think sir going side with you absolutely so at any eisaito
anyways you can check those things out organ man do come they'll be there join warfare you like that don't do ye yes good there's a there's a later on there that's deep deeply her
all he either in the one person that's going to get this layer is dem lister yep yep yep trauer halevi at that hellenotamiae at the thought a move parietibus he had to keep him
greathearted join sir also speaking the jacking steel can be so on we came here were in maine or no was it people haven't gathered that already on offenham no bit wait room
rekindle a little fitness then ere there the ffirst night we get here one guysborough my honied bell oh yeah who live to where john john was john ye me a unicellular ones i just
ordered leta legit dishipated on the way trackway oh yes that's the good on you do cattledon you stop lifting now that's right i thought i did i stop the two massive well
gantletted i don't bring herself ballamaguery recording a uso you wait you fifty year it now as we talked about you used to wait to eighty five and i asked this question and it is
a good question that every one should in a hear the answer to cold the two hundred and fifty souls two undeft sound an ape beat the two hundred and eighty five pound petering
match and your answer was one percent the smaller i wind stiff lies at a mean lots o reasons your more flexible more flexible better positioning better escape cause is less mass
burning lass oxonian that you have less muscle pass an for me i would ware the two hundred eighty five version of myself i fooit i stopped and i love lifting weights i love
lifting weights but for me jogues the void because it is resistance he you're always working i never feel a shaper well as i have two many will be plies a absenting to work out
besides judie now you run de spread no day just ursus i do dengler tells me at that winding mister dozent want to work out doesn't hottest sprinted get i did it from judicial
that's what i best thing so now you're supporting his argument now i now i got a deal with that well he robert said you know oh well we'll talk about and some to howdoyoudo makes
you unathletic oh really that's a whole nother talk interesting and i have facts on why it makes you an athletic what keeps you it keeps your body together your card agathe your
muscle strong so it is i do to make you an athletic its slow movement you slow you start when you start you to to you body slows down your mind so down your muse slow down
whatever you had for fast which turns a slow twitches you pulling and tugging and your moder's lit ileliobas both see don so touched him he and she i didn't queened it can i will
go ahead and descend the gieve her on my side of the table because if you continue to do collins and you continue to score a task and you can do us springs and mobility drills and
a agility drills you can keep that athleticism i think you're right i know you are right jack anastatia routes i did when i competed i had a striking addition congo spring life
fish cow so i guess big picture is one of those deals work had a confirmed the idea that you don't have to be athletic to do good in jugera speaking of but if you want to do some
kind of athletic competition including benetite to to git it helps to be at lategan aceronia kinda glad that you can hit em with that because i want i said i stopped doing like
legs and stuff like that i got a lot of crap for it fine i do on of squat and calling woodhall how i am scared of him i had like haccamana for sure he amadises something to back a
back in my back yet the last time i squatted and i hit the floor and right of course bad back tied back from years of major and a personal question does your ego not allow you to
get in there and do andre eighty five pounds for some higher raps no i do that our tent but you still don't like it i do acquit i still don't ride on his stiltlike it but when i
mean in its steel is great yes that's the bottom why yes great i just get a dietitian and nose i do you know every time i stuffiness six ten minute rounds and i trained through
the break so i'm doing twelve mirandolina sure to get six and a and i get it as as things free up and my son wants to a life as he started a lama algetin with him and woke me
press on in ye ye ye then down the pretty pair o his knowledge alone we want a literally all you want to eat pressed orritate tell don't get you that be i mean i'm sure under
certain circumstances if you will but but they don't do it a athletic i beanstalk hand clean you may a hankley don't pierina and the others begin it when you like for a cattleboat
he it's a swinging motion and when i get to the top you have to stop it right cause i was so on rip you shall rose you have to use all this whatever that kind of muscle what is it
a go centrosome thing or is it in whatever they got to do with as it to stop it at the top you got to stop it or using all these muscles and make that thing at that's cool quiet
made yet i montanelli heloise get fun ye like one you start getting like the ballindine at our like good the moment i got crewmen on the got a balance a moment it's like all the
stuff you remembers one college he said the true oh true test house strong somebody is this a inclined you could becquia could squatter has clears a lot of pen will you do lot of
things that you could say that like for denewit your overhead squat a go that it ever will i a horse then got a guy to the massive leg big weight and our board medium way high
raps over his gatestone inkling you got to use your speed i'll so experience if you know you can ask us straight to the snatch a right but then again the snatch needed the balance
at the top that's ordination and yeates other things so no andeed on what you mean by strong too lernaean an in certain circles they call strength power and stronger two different
things and i ogasawara talkin about so i did it and i grew actually but this also twenty years ago yet exactly right you'll get another point to continentia really in good changes
to a integre you said hand queen right hand clean neat a real old venture the solid metric pressure dead lifting other solid metric by the way ye live or i had had a row strength
that i be ye good consider a member by like when you're a kid or maybe old school canopies hy it a hay he now you get the old timer and lord foshono you and your like real strong
or tropick that a man i mean him ikey can't be get up your week you can and your strange come in to ayupee yes hollanden the net this step to his speckter your hint you liked life
because a year yes i don't no just getting to the new domain left not whose only series yea yea yea yet yet you gordon get you not to it that though who they istalina somebody
there liederlich e was at ye he's acito an i know my back and stuff is a pre don't get crazy with dead less no but you can talk or plenty of people that say oh i had a bad back
and i dead lifted it now at heel i right plenty of riata absolutely crazy with em benderson jingle your your backs a bad bealteine antiwar even to senhorina cares because when you
have like some cortar your back or something when you do stuff you adjust to a inalienably ye because you don't use it in so now when you do some thing you're giving the cranberry
duero this side you gonna put it over here you adalifa yaoorie huntington you an walk crimesters or the model porosehasp your body's way of telling you don't want that graineterie
your ravannes ponderous you know like this as i just an that's why though so you go dead lift not heavy not crazy just like you boys like like one lifting it's like your body just
giving you to it so bonused to pick him stuff up not one to try it do it i like it for the cabells too and if you want the cool ones and when i see cools like you look at him in
their cool to like irrefutably cool on it that's the one the girl owenite girl on the arnaldo the chimp one for the asteroid me that i honestatis am be aisier song there's a way
window holehaven but name categories say and i for what there all called but like an biniodide the legend breste gillane or the primate was set to do these arbithrate ones that
look crazy an evil yet the nineteenth i can i toinette enthetically know why you antoinette ninety insult budtha brings a good point in my opinion all the different categories
timeball that's the the champ the unwall the things different zombis all on the later in war wolf a psychosis cyclops like all the legends soon picture category by justice i
recommend what else stickemup amens jump ropes of tenacula its panago you go in there and they have all kinds of work out stuff like stuff in how brain how when you get into a
work out maybe that you you're not like this but like i got into the catbells and it became fun um you know you know how like em if something becomes funesto do in a do something
that sucks a well day is it a oratiello but they got all kind of like a mass and you know all the works of whatever anyway so to go on on a dotcoms flashed jocolate out that stuff
in and get after even if you're getting bored man you got at some interesting stuff to work out with ilicitos also if you like these books pep didn't write a book wait have you
written the book before when the i ho a i wouldn't be so riaro along asked paperweight i couldn't sleep over the last year but yet one book so ye little bit different but anyway
on a light them stockwell reebok on this paesel like to get em if you ontell out there good website talk podcast dot com section books from the pot cask click through there to get
the books of a good way to support my euaion or if you're doing any other shopping to do it though there be support small actions mycineris action i also the scribe to the pot
cast and who will play we still feel the need to say that the abbe cause what some people aren't subscribed in the advantages you all it's it it i guess it's just a guest my guess
there's probably hytyhoo speaking is my hypotheseeses probably a marginal group whose like an who's jack i heard him on jookerie see him on whatever then i call me listen wopatka
as i calico or into a lemonian other one okay cool maybe i'm not down you know he's kinard or just whatever they do understand like oh i can subscribe to this but i and is get
it'll tell tell me when it's coming right as well able don't listen pocasse i go i go a question for him not that have you thought about cause you this is number ninety yes you
thought about breaking the pot casts and the categories to speak to your audience because you cover such a broad audience on when you say breaking them at you masanath detection
like hot had em up no no no the full piaster you wear your cover books where you're a aweless where you're interviewing somebody breaking a up that way yet they are a tentacular
rittenhouse from why right a clairement when at one says he you know i just heard your podcast old i heard i i just as in the pocassett out i want to listen to the rest of them
should i go backward said i go for i learn and i tell el start a one and and and still the people that i talked to that are into the poast doelike that's the right advice tell
people started one if i said joli want to listen to your real business related potatoes i couldn't could i do that her not what we are going to do and i have this in the
background on it something that i've been trying to get one for while as we're goin to cut or ciere you goin t be able t maybe figure out oh i want to listen to business ye go and
here's a pocasset now whether or not we like chop em up and put them in one group um not yet not yet i i antei mean it you're yet not for geistes but you know one of those things
you got a manually look you know cause it'll say what it's about in our act the obstat up by time stamp you are alabout i saw likened it that way but no not organized like if if
you're en i makes sense though because if we are talking about a book and people like widower two lovers and a profanation they can just get off deringhame you know and that to
side you nina he noonoonites but as subscribed that a good one if you have an already helpit that even already goodridge one also you too subscribed to allan yenowines little bit
more psyche makes sense to be like his inscription the big thing that you might not know it if you're not subscribed to you too there could be things that are not in the pond
canes so let's say you like the park as you listening to it and you go yet live here on the paason reet you to you're wrong ye because there could be seeing this released sure
into the you too have not been released in other instance believed seen stealing which is altona the record about things like people that have certain you what is susannah nothing
brought flag of squaring ausetani say it stopped squirting because of actually the technically the story goes a stop squatting because my wife said he your legs were like real big
and it looks weird the fun because my wife said you're starting he had an old man but i cloehessey know me i don't know to tanis i don't like it though i dementie to do that and
i'm squatting the tete get on the wall he got warigesui keelson pool yea that's anyrate really one they say that the the regular or the russian sure hell on wings oestergoetland
you a amalthaean that the literal either way he had a deleted scene set it he was giving me shirukas i stop squatting actually did not squatting a stop squatting like a hard cord
lags you know what i'm saying i tacootchetessee stop ainanan or a dilettante on there a exerto know the likelihood i liked that park and people still email me about that by the
way were there like hand wallis that part or what episode was up from that part where whatever sonsiness or nibsy the share that exerts easy to find so you has a goin a subscribed
to you too also jocatore is called jackals door jocko stored at com yes and there everything artificially everything but as a right now there's some shirts on there women stuff on
their patches on there a upton your hat interchangeable del craches if you are rash guards awesome somehow they have two options ahmoo rash guards get after it to droop pure
darkness rascar to an origin asgard ye just like that the selection just vatairs and adventure there goin to be in his allwill in all he had a eloge here we are in one gervas a
absentest to just go and traces of it be a melting pot of awesome and rhangabe shaganappi yes all that so ann and some woodisun there yes i think we should consult no o he
amantillado what is going to say he from hawaii were wont to lie we hordnance made hoodie and long and as all like all you make a hole you can wear it in like a full fledged
arctic store of antedate have a heavy weight on who the so his his eares are are are like their forecourse how ye good for a while if you even have got is in hawaii there like a
fall hodegus the anita's like my guest i don't know that's why i iissous mean his is like his consultation things when i consult him like an it's it's like mixin with a scolding
zouge is a golden first there i like to marleenken make a really really bad as flat locked cutitout what is a flat way off what a way to set lapse to hoe a how could we possibly
do that what it were we going to get someone to knows how to make the flat lackoon bad one motes away for it to get him the fractures for hate well you can make a tentmaker that's
good stuff also m psychological worker previously humanity we talked about joint warfare for joint generation is some ionization all that stuff over all regenerate generally
supplementation for your body ye sometimes you need suprematie for your mind then are you mines full on so in your campaign again sweetness psychological weakness you know your
changed up every day right sitations help me with eating with yourtas actually hers in the specific traverse you and i'm my defaite ted that cause that's been my one struggle as a
human what is the boy i i will be paisie kake in with creameries i see a eiselthein commercial caustini signalisin you put those two next to each other they are in different plan
at singout employment to a healthy thought allegedly and i hereditates velagic is pretty fateima me over you eyetalian single parent family four kidweli to bunhouse to and never
pronounced to be i to bring lourenco out at weekenders we can interitura called shook her coated lies really wear tea i riber interested at will heeteheete lies yet we there yet
and we think it be like jacklein at you like the whatever but it's a pragmatic explanation of what your mind is doing right now and what it shouldn't be doing and what it should
be doing and is like a nosologic orfer that can help ye was at i'll be on to basically it's a echonta it's an album is it hayet it is an album with trap on it to him so tradition
a amazon music like all these things yet empery left anita you you probably set her thinking like okay that that's a neat little idea that you know choce up with and made jagadis
and uncle that album number one spoken word album on i tunes for ataile like thirty eight straight weeks at kittinger one that death that as he'll be deal you know o yesias don't
have lastin i will say that when echoes at you you came just just you know these things are astinente you know hammer and i'll swear on a yet to basically like okay to sesto have
this thing you do not any more a lasting where you know in you like oyouki out this one siyou know just as if they hated one comes time to work out and i let jim at my house so so
i'm like a may be ill i'll do it i meant to do it at noon on the two atoning i i i don't feel like doing around duanan deny no account ability yet nobody's watching the inyoka do
what you want eh what i'm feeling in a little bit marching from coffee men whatever it's right outside now and only get it yet and that that i that night turns into hail to it to
morrow sleep basically turn of work out dan to a rest dalahaide to turn on your motivation again and on yet and it's again it's not like a motivation of thing it's like okyo's
jacal sang it so ka there's that but eriksen okay this is what quite on right now this is what you're thinking right now this is what you shouldn't be think for it others what you
should be thinking right now okay there you go attainment i find about him his cause it is met alington it dear there very um very tight arguments yet ye get down listening in go
youdoma may i still find a little hole as argomento know i think i was one sugar go to the one will be by the not going to do that and all you like you know what this is a big
deal i adamantine will be pitied yet you know you meetness case yet i will be in the elm i don't care i don't care who's round me the sanifying for surely we will travel the other
day what i get sweet tea oh and why said seaworthy of bocotia are in you don't you mamma i know i can't i say if you you know you like hayonotes things and i i know an it is and
and he said man got a try sparkle while my mom as on baroni know it's sweet right negligent as i go to thee had parton booahs i can find you no no began and you know we've lately
then saying like you know a discipline on allow it that it is a new seenteen we you know maybe see each other may be taken a pratt we should be savanarola feet after on to the
path of weakness you might be like a ha ha ecoutans going everything but the bit deducible monotone so it's awesome you know yesterday you know your danglements hostem home made
balloon my mom's there an your mom hairy like that and i know i can see her she looks like she arrived from greece three days ago right to make for vostimon right si had one
yesterday and then the displine when the one more to day i had nine of them in no aerolithe of him for that one side three of them sugar cold it lies a backload gem my mom was
going to get called a man backalong back weathercote maybe'll sermoneta but you keep in my now with these tracks you got to be on that path it's not like your like hey i eat too
much when we listen to distraction it's too came my plan is to straight up clean up my hole shit like i might find and set you hardy found a bit o oration yet ye your motivated
you're on the path or any it it's on the weakness moments the moment that we grenadelike ocana i'm arrested amain a water is that kind but you have a night that i do we all do we
all do that that's probably why a lot of people get that album it with tracks you don't idearium like you ragoued no no what i would do is this i'd be like especially when i was
training competition i'm going to eat this wookey i would eat it and i would run to miles yet i was narainpore euan it pretty how do you got to let you the alike enlit and pre
empt weakness with hard coaches i do pay we the by the way often made a gates yet take like like oh i want to have a jorinel i can eliminate shiplake as soon as i do thirty clean
and jerk smokethat i can also to bar down i can do it and and that's cool but then what were time you get down you'll not in want that fine i infused my brain with discipline from
the bar it went from the bar in my hands and into my brain as it inedite yet you in the simple wants burianer burpys like okay you know it i can have this if i do a hundred
beretta kes less than ten minutes we had this thing the other day in a talk about it my freezer my house broke in so we had in our van our frozen food was in the arve refrigerator
and i wanted some ice cream and then i was like a you know it's all to a better thing as myself can willy loser even even deserve i strutted habit yes i said you're a pathetic if
you're actually questioning whether it's work that got on to a homely you don't need this at all in any way shape or form if you were thinking it wasn't worth twenty seven steps
to get to the army grab the men charaterized come bring it back down opinionated and eli little bill and in jessie he asteropaeus good you a little mill to the ice cream just a
little malmani it said and i ran it hernan's ball not if you ever that turanians bow is it's you you basically take ice cream and you put milk in it and all erroun getaway gains
not fatalite he gallivanted he catch rainwater to the war were talking about right now the pleasures of gains balleroy that shockley cuillini walk bare foot and two feet of snow
to that figaniere this guy till he was at in a hunterdon likeable that he did that negative repositor is worse it's weird because you have a better result but you're disports what
cause he was like he monna be weak i have disinter gentle to be we a who was in that day there but you could that's ratleicus the end you know is lamented eration fees i actually
embarrassed myself yeah yeah you would as i did you beat myself in i said i can't believe him even questioning the fact if i would take twenty seven steps to my arm a fact that
i'm confining that way don't you know what i heartsease had any position just stop and so he i didn't get the ice cream that night but the inshore bigamist ere he is is a real
thing and even but i had my fail for eareye i don't even in roland in inbreathing when i wasn't montano tracks lustrac in muralt's the other that's the other car i'm not going to
get no i am understand and i saw it and i diet but it's just it's very surprising that you alimentary you can find you get real you can close the moose track with a scoop of men
chocolate shivver done that the right on his derangement warfusee had an cheese and wine a oh yes galiache is that we see all massa is that we should do not a man of my body in
benedictis awesome guy bad as rustler rested was a champion wrestler in college and was on the olympic team a dice for very reasons that i won't talk about a but he was friends
with dancaire ember danny's all ye a early who have tansies out o o why this just came to a mind owing to white it so he would say they knew each other they were friends and
whenever he see danes ever deny severn was a heavy weight and this body mind was cutting wait you know a husbin guy he was like an ever more like two hundred pounds betaught to
one ninety whatever and he would call dan severn a politer mean come like you're you're just your guidet's over there you're eating everything you when you go don't eat you
lakeneigh and picture you with the smile you got a avenarius other that bayou like all i'm getting the the rest of it i niceity is my damnably my kids have followed the path of my
wife and they come up to me when i meeting junk food and the big dad you got moves yaouma left fat on my garou don't need that of their brutal pay and the kanasadaga were for a
anaitis i'm so wise you not suppose to enfor pounds i should be as it ardita bow will we say that's the freedom part but thing as he got to be on the path has so like yes you know
how they sing discipline for freedom you know you grab the ice cream eh you let a i had the pole out on yet for the first time i was at a satellite lecania get together and there
was a respiratory for a friend of the family by baba and there was a grandmother there so a grandmother from these kids had betiarum so and she's a german woman mum and you know
she kind of knows what's going on a little bit with the game what with less going on and i and so i'm sittin there in the gertie's like a um you straight up this is rough you know
the ice cream cakes and you can get a metageitnia so the cake as a lethargic to right acaso alatana lacerations i'm like okay you know what going to get some at mentone came it
got wine now what it is those little black like crumb things that i aranyaka vary in there to work time this is a situation needs to be you know we we need to get in on the
sanaquarium it melted so soft so anyways i'm cutness cake not a bad piece not a small piece but you know like a medium piece the don't my plate stick my forkidan this woman his
german woman whose supercows e's like i thought you are about the discipline in i was like dan this she called me out and i looked at her said the ant i have dispondaeus me to
have freedom sometimes did he mean carpatica cages which i'm about to do kyoto's as you say this is the freedom part but like i said you have a half half he had been the game we
can do we like to the free at every single day no doesn't work with his assawai also janaway tea you can get that you know what it does if you insarted lifting again you you
should get drink a little bit more dark away pabas it will increase your dead lift to eight thousand pounds that is is proven ailerons the board among it up every one out books
and i got them books if you want to get him extreme ownership book about leadership book about combat your ship you can get that you can get it for yourself and even get a for
your team and you can get it for above and below you in the chain of command if i to make your life easier whenever one's on board if you got kids or you know kids you can pick
him up if a called away of the warrior kid and what that's going to do is going to lay out a past act is a pasha that a kid coldest have a pass most kids don't have a pass the
book will give them the path and the path leads them to being stronger smarter and better so my daughter read it she loved it that is all stinche is an individual and she speaks
her mind and as i call no really what is nashville that book as she came up in she wanted you to silentest to me to get her copy back home to day what i failed and we got a
moorsom a whole to morrow some ah that's yeah i appreciate it and and yes traylike when you ask kids o how did you like it with a always ask him till they like it and did you know
kids like he said getting a day the youth yelland so so far i have not had to kid go and marginal harder to hold at island marginal is a economist the mark but you know a letter
hanging not fast but you know whatever they should make the shout a movie or something of the dignement movie um also another book coming out octoberfest discipline equal freedom
heeled manuel that will also show you the path it it's going to show you the ikons one path the base discipline grabbed that book if you need help o your business i have a
business called a calantha with my brother lafe mabon and he was we worked together in the sultan's battle of romani we took a lesson that we learned we wrote that book extreme
ownership and the reason we that book tremors was because the b that we were consulting asking us to right down the less as we so the is if you want us to come work with you it's
life bate me j p i know dave birone h they are email us in so at atlanta dotcom also if you want to communicate with us you can do that we can all be found on something that we
talk about earlier to night the interwetting ram and that face he bore a echoes at echo charles b is at or in which talking in sacramento in script where you at origin us twitter
where you at at origin b j j as in brazilian awsome i i a jackwell in if you want to hit us up you can hit us there ecopulis clothing clothing i holding thoughts we got at it
hoping thoughts eye closing touch not that it pete the man greek to finally meet you in person and i hesitate i don't say you guys a man a ordered at table with you both and a
just mattresses for everything you guys do like i is glad to be humayun experience this also i want to say my wife a man there for putting up with my crazy ships and midnight
ideas and allowing me the flexibility to live this life which is important of relationship and might kids i keenly ah who are the ones i work for every day day they laughably good
things coming yes well for me you know i wish i would i met you twenty years ago for whatever is i didn't i wish i would have egoutiers ago for whatever resided n't met you six
months ago and just looking at what you've done in telling you and if if i have it made it perfectly clear to day what you have done to this point already is in coridale i i don't
i don't even it's the the possibilities of you poling off what you've already pulled off is incredible in what what's cool as it's like when a what a wheasel takes off the hardest
part of the journey is that first part getting breaking away from gravers and what you've already done you've cleared the gravity verse and now you are on track in it's it's you
know just nothing but respect for what you do i know that you have your hand to make this happen your mind to make this happen and i i just respect everything you've done so far
talking to the team here and the attitude that they have everybody has that attitude and and just for me to come in and be a part of that is just out standing i look forward to
being a part of this team i look forward to getting to know the team when i can come up your which is hard but to see the people on this team is is is fenomeno and i can't wait to
see where it goes so fanfaro ing on and this is guaranteed not be the last time ah and of course to the military folks overseas right now thanks for allowing it as to make this
poast we could not make this podcast without your service and sacrifice to the police and all landforce to fire fighters tents and other first responder again you allow us to make
this poast and we are thankful for it and finally and of course to the working class of america thanks for doing what you do day after day working sweating bleeding building
calices while you build a great country thank you for holding the line and thank you for getting after it so until next time missus peake roberts and echo and jacko out
