this is jacopo cast number ninety four with e o charles and me jock awile good evening echo god evening the black cloud of smoke exploded silently outside the open door of the
dakota obscuring for the moment my view of the geometrical dutch landscape deserted but for a few forlorn cows as soon as the sea it appeared below us as ardoin about the flack
and i knew that every one else in the air craft must be worrying as well when we crossed the east anglian coast line that slight wave of movement had flickered down the air craft
as the men checked their watches calculating the time it would take to fly over the sea and come within range of the knower german antiaircraft guns below us the air sea rescue
launches of the raft dotting the water at precise intervals were pleasantly comforting the narrow band of beach which was the coast of holland had aroused us once again as the
flooded fields flashed into view private harrisites leaned across to point out the guns and the ground shooting up at the mast ranks of our air craft at the sound of my bat man's
voice which had been silent for the past hour the men near to the open doorway had craned forward to see what they could while the rest anxious for the first indications of the
enemy had twisted their necks to peer through the small windows at their backs at first i could see nothing and i was stupidly aggravated that every one but myself could spot gun
flashes then came that cloud of smoke producing an odd sense of satisfaction a reaction which immediately shamed me this is the behaviour of a small boy for all that it was
satisfying not to feel scared by it perhaps it was because the experience was not only novel but in some way impersonal looking down the dark tunnel of the air craft at the double
line of soldiers it was a relief to see that all traces of nervousness had disappeared we had been waiting a long time for this so that is the opening of a book called men at our
name and it was actually sent to me by a tie by the name of james of fenelon and the book was originally published under the suite from angus and it was about this battle at this
place called arna which is in holland and in the book the units that are doing a fighting there not identified they don't say what units they are but shortly after the book was
published it became very clear and it was revealed that the after was an individual named jeffrey powell a british army officer and that the unit that the book talks about was the
hundred and fifty sixth perished battalion of the british army who fought against all odds in really with misfortune after misfortune for a days during operation market garden
which is a famous world war two operation a bold and superare plan and also the largest airborne operation up into a point and the goal was to isolate part of the german forces
and to cut off what's known as the roar district which is like the heart of german industry and in open up eraoun going from through that whole area take control of the roads and
the bridges and be able to punch right into the heart of germany over forty thousand airborne troops took part in the operation including america's eighty second air borne and a
hundred for first airborne divisions but the deepest that those that jump deepest into enemy territory were from the british british first airborne division and that included this
patalon the hundred and fifty six parachute italian and if you know anything about operation market garden although it did achieve some beneficial things over all the mission was
considered a failure because it had didn't actually achieve the objective that it wanted to achieve and as you can imagine those that were furthest out suffered some absolutely
catastrophic casualties and people taken prisoner and people killed in action in and this is only an a day the eight days long so this this period that were about to cover his
only eight days long and your once that it is it is vicious and the names or changed in this book but again this is an accountant an account from one of the company commanders
inside this battalion so obviously the opening was them flying over the english channel and getting ready to jump in to holland and here we go back to the book i braced myself at
the open door the first man in the stick to jump gripping the fuselage in case of sudden jerk flung me out too soon leaning forward the wind whipped my face poring over the
details of the placid dutch landscape below i could now see one or two cycles dotting the otherwise deserted countryside the flicker of the red warning light near my face told me
that there was one minute to go a railway line flashed below the pattern of the woods was familiar as the view of the stable yard from the office window the air photographs and
the briefing model of the ground had imprinted the shapes on my mind the pilots were dead on target more often than not in the old days we had been dropped the stray but these
yanks always learned from their mistakes i never saw the red by turned green harrison's hand slapped my shoulder i was out of the door the slip stream hit me licking me sideways
and i fell away just catching a glimpse of harrison in the air above me and the tale of the air craft flashing out of sight then i was floating suspended gently in mid air my
paiute canopy high i looked up at the sky choked with hundreds of swaying parishes most of them patterned in green and brown camelibus other of others and a galaxy of colors red
and orange purple blue and yellow vivid against the scattered white clouds every moment more or craft arrived arrived to disgorge their cargoes into the crowded air then i noticed
the humming we were being shot at from the ground there were boon the drops one something was badly wrong and opposed landing with the enemy firing as we hung from our parachutes
persuer tried to collect our weapons before we could gather into calesford on the ground with something new for us in the british air borne forces tracoma down there getting shot
at the uses this term throughout the book he calls the german bosh b o s h e and where it comes from from what i gathered there is a french word that means i could meet head like
caboto something like that and it also can mean cabbage and so i guess there there there slang term their derogatory slang term was easy big headed german big cabbage heads and he
reduced that down to this term boston it's a common one for them to use the use it a lot in world war one and so this is cussing over from that mature on hear throughout the book
that how he's referring to the germans back to the book a sharp pain burned the knuckles of my left hand blood was seeping from my fingers a bullet must have hit me grazed me
anyway but now that he landed was rushing up raising my hands to lift the webs i pulled and then hit the end in the ground hit me with a uncomfortable jar a bad landing i lay in
the sunken road listening to the bullets cracking overhead and there right there they get right into the mex i mean it immediately into the mix obvious ianson at the wig down in
an wissende at the ground it's a back the book a man with blood straight blood stained shell dressing wrapped around his throat walked around the corner of the wording towards us
just as pritchard whose the medic finished his work then came a couple of parties carrying stretchers the occupant of one unconscious the other with a cigarette between his gray
type lips they were the first stream of wounded men from a variety of units making their painful way towards the dressing station which had been set up in the wood behind us so
far sea company had been lucky only four men were missing and a fifth that turned up late smiling cheerfully despite a bullet through his bandager another four five were limping
and hopping about on stranger twisted ankles expressions of disgust in their faces victims of the gusty wind on the dropping one all of them would have to be left behind but then
i thought again calculating the figures once more perhaps we had not been so lucky after all a tenth of the men who had implanted that morning were already casualties it it
sounded as if all the fighting had happened on the far side of the dropping zone in the armer direction now the noise of the battle began to ada the enemy post had probably been
overrun neither news nor orders had arrived from battalion headquarters but i knew better than to extract the radio net with needless questions so first of all you're rowing into
a situation where you year on your insert and you lose ten per cent your men that that's that's just where are enow if i remember correctly that is the standard kind of figure
that when your conducting a big airborne operation like when the army can not big airborne operations that's what they figure they're going to take for pasley's on the drops one
obviously they usually do better than that but for warsas hat's kind of what they figure that's where they're at the other thing that i thought was cool is here is he hadn't heard
any word from the potala curate but he's not going to jump on the net and sang a bass will you want me to do hey what's going on he were you not be because there's altepetl that
are trying to talk and he's got a dust kind of a figure things out at this point now he talked about his own company but here's the report on the now on the rest of the talesmen
as he figured stuff and as usual obviously i'm not reading the whole book and i'm skipping through big chunks of combat situations but at this point he figures out what's a going
on with the talian going back to the book casualties on of the talian had not been light two officers and a hundred men had failed to arrive among them the plain load which we had
seen shot down enothera load had probably been dropped in the wrong place he in hampshire was one of the missing officers rumor had it that he was dead the other was the
intelligence officer whose job jimmy gray had now combined with his own jimmie could not explain the reason for the delay no one seemed to know and that's one of the parts that i
didn't go over in the beginning of the book otherwyse flack hit and exploded around them he you know they see another one of their aircraft filled with their brothers go down no
shots now they start getting some coherent import from the battalion in nears what they figured out comeback to the book we would move as had already been planned in england the
leading company of the battalion with leslie doles patoon number nine in the front some two hundred yards ahead followed by company headquarters then luke tyler's ate pucoon then
douglas thomson seven button at the back as i had expected the company was ready to move by the time orders had been given out the minutes were all that was needed for the men to
slide their intrenching tools in the place take up their weapons and sort themselves out no one had removed his equipment it was a lesson which the colonel had drummed into us no
man must ever remove his equipment when the enemy is anywhere near no matter whether he was digging sleeping or defeating whatever time it may be day or night a soldier had only
to reach for his weapon to be ready to fight or to march just once this day just once each day one man in three at a time was allowed to strip so he could wash and shave and shave
they must the last man of nine fulton was disappearing round the corner of the sandy track which ran parallel with the railway line to arnam when i noticed the colonel standing on
the right next to the shell of a still smoking glider which partly blocked italian's path so there is perturbation but other people came in on gliders just big glider you know no
engine that would get told by other plans their filled with men and they were just land these gliders in in big open fields gray was a by the colonel's side and behind them
crouched a knot of radio operators in order lest it was the same as ever the colonel's eyes were still but he never missed anything the unfastened pouch from which a grenade or
bread magazine could slip the slack chin strap which would fail to hold a running man steel helmet in place quietly the colonel would indicate the error to which ever passing it
officer or ends were responsible for the man nothing was ever ignored safely out of range the offender would mumble about the nick picking old bastard but the abuse was usually
perfunctory and good natured all of the new his ways and by now they had learned that his fads mattered so the colonel rudesheim the that's what he is doing he is a ily discipline
guide and he keeps his keeps his troops in check and as you can see they not offended by that like they they they complain about is a little bit but they also they also know him
eating you here we go back to the buckle that we were moving along our plane rout or roll in the battle had been changed instead of making for the high ground north of our name
the whole of the brigade was now marching for the for the bridge to relieve the struggling remnants of the first brigade which had been fighting alone there for more than twenty
four hours one thing was certain so so there their mission a change will be there's a bridge and first brigade was at this bridge had taken a bridge but now they're getting
attacked at that bridge by the germans and their and now these guys get this brigade gets the orders to go and help them go and relieve them back to back one thing was certain
parish again centre were not the fast moving hard hitting truths to pected by the daily press with no more transport in a battalion than four lightly armored carriers and some
half dozen jeeps nearly every thing needed in battle either had to be carried on the backs of soldiers or dragged behind them there were no trucks just behind the forward
companies loaded with spare ammunition instead extra bandoliers were strong round neck and light an i tank minds swung from waist belts success came with surprise in the sort of
fighting the enemy must be caught unaware and crushed before they could recover inevitably we would run short of ammunition if the bow were allowed the chance of standing in
fighting this weary trudged toward the bridge in arnam along the endless tracks was a crazy way to use airborne troops surprise had been lost long ago before the operation started
i doubted the wisdom of dropping so far from the bridges now it was clear that it had been a mistake to there there are a radically different situation instead of dropping in and
holding some ground now their moving aftercure alder dear with them then it's not a good situation these talking about some of the guys are carrying it as much as a hundred pounds
which is a torn away and now they get they get word from the colonel back to the book he was able to confirm that the first pair shoregate was still holding out the bridge where
the casualties had been heavy on both sides the germans having already lost two thousand men although it was not clear who had counted them now as he gets done with that he kind
of gives some word thirst art moving down the track so he's giving that order to this one of his officers dole and doles normally you know pretty pretty fired up about what he's
doing he's a motivated guy and here we go back to the book dowis not at all his embullioned the task of nine polton was simple he and his men had to walk straight down the track
until they ran into the bowesian their first warning of the enemy presents would be the rifle and machine gun fire tearing into them still less were the two scouts to be envied
who would be moving out in front of the rest of the boon it was almost inevitable that the first german rounds would hit one or both of them unless the germans were cunning enough
to let them pass so as to kill more of the men behind but without almost in front to draw the enemy fire and pin point their positions there was no other way to advance i chosen
dole to lead the vance because i was certain that i could rely on him this was the penalty for being good at one's job so there you go there actually walking down train tracks and
they know a hundred per cent they know a hundred per cent that germans are waiting for them and they are going to push down the track and the way they're going to find the germans
as when the german start shooting at them so they proceeded down the track and now going back to the book the expected happen happened the calm of the night collapsed in an
explosion of light and noise from a wide arc anton of nine poltoon streams of white red and yellow tracer bullets converged on the stretch of track where the men must have flung
themselves to the ground very lights and parishoners larger and brighter than anything carried by us swung down towards the earth lighting the dark country shit the shade of grof
a gray november morning a house burst into flames on the other side of the railway it was too sudden for an accident the conflagration must have been planned anything which moved
was now visible over all was the noise the din of shells and mortars bursting both behind in the head merging with the harsh roll of this enemy spanoriards and the more sustained
drumming of the heavier weapons now i could hear another sound it was a slow ratatat tat of nine buttons brengues and the crack of british rifles replying to the german fire there
are a lot of enemy in fun of us the germans had men everywhere so this is like a well plan and bush senario that if you think about it they had it sounds like the righi house to
light up and and beyond fire and now that back lighting and silian all the friendly troops because it just makes you stand out because the fire behind you on top of that machine
gun fire on top if that mortars shells are eating you and here we go back to the book as as as the major here as the company commander jeffrey pallas is crouched down awaiting as
all this is happening out ahead of him he's not with that first fulton he's behind them a little bit and he regolatore book i saw a single crouched figure running up the track
behind to towards me then i recognized the broad bulk of bar bartalommeo leslie doyle's put on sergeant this was quick leslie ad wasted no timing sending back news only a little
out of breath sergeant bartolini sank down by my side and began to speak his voice as calm and sensible as usual his leading section come under fire and a range of only some
twenty or thirty yards he appeared that the germans had allowed the two scouts to pass on the less did but everyone else in the funston had been killed there were several other
cattle teasing the platoon as well including mister doyle who had been hit badly in the five and was only semiconscious the survivors were opened the ground by fire which was
coming from either side of the track this was all wrong with his platoon commander hit sergeant bartolome his place was with the batoon there were plenty of other people that
carry messages not only that but barfael hardly have had time to verify the disastrous information about the leading section it was far light far from likely that every man in it
had been killed so barfael nerve at broken in the first test the that's a situation this guy ran and he comes back and reports in and says you know hey everyone's dead and ye see
realizes he realizes the companiment realizes that not true don't back to the book perhaps the responsibility been too much for him whatever it was he was certainly scared to
spite his success in concealing the fact the sergeant had run away leaving the platoon to its own devices i was flabbergasted of all the end cos i had judged this cool reserved
man to be the most dependable a hard task master toothless to be popular sergeant bartholomew had been an effective foil to the easy going in friendly dol and the two men had
formed a fine team it was incredible that this should have happened in the light of a flare i studied the sergeant's face there was nothing to be seen bartalone my glaze with
steady eyes there could be no point in my further destroying the man self self respect it was possible that he might recover after this first shock his pride taking charge to
control his fear so my rebuke was restrained no more than a common that parfaitement private jones back with the news and not come himself then i stood up once again told robert
who had appeared by my side to take charge and started down the track toward the forward potention ing barfoot accompany me there was no need to say anything to harrison who
automatically rose to his feet his stand cradled in his elbow ready to shoot so interesting leadership dynamic and satan you you coward you quit he doesn't do that instead he he
really told to back un as he should have said jones instead he's hoping that this guy will recover and this is a great line his pride taking charge to control his fear mean this
guest as no pride at this point he thinkee it together but hopefully the cap be the company commander is thinking that okay this guy will get it back together hopefully and will
be able to utilize him as opposed to me just dropping the hammer on him right now in which case he might just completely break and be worthless and the other thing and i i tried
to include as much as i could of this guy harrison that gets mentioned who sort of the the the company commanders right hand guy but he's just always there always ready always
stepping up and making things happen now eventually as all that unfolds or going back to the book news bit which is one of the guys and not in that polton a bit had decided it was
time to leave and had used the lull to bring back the survivors of the bolton two men were dead while nothing was known of the fate of the two scouts with as it were five wounded
men two of whom including his officer were being carried leslie in shocking pain from a shattered five which morphia had done little to help had fainted after a few yards and was
still unconscious a third of the pocone casualties there was bad but not as quite as bad as pictured by bartalone i could not blame nesbit for withdrawing without permission sort
of amunition with her officer wounded and the platoon sergeant unaccountably missing the men in her nothing of the troops behind them for the past hour and had concluded that the
italian must have pulled back as it did seem a lot of war as his decem anence testified he understood its muddle he knew it was rare for a battle to go as planned his
responsibility was to his men to rescue them from what seemed to be a mess this he had done and his judgment had been correct they were no place to be caught at daylight
overlooked on a ford slope and unencumbered with wounded men so you said decentralised command in action right there nesbit doesn't hear doesn't know what's going on he made to
the casion i'm getting these guys out of here and what's good as a company commander supports a do you made a good call that was the right thing to do now at this point their
moving backs that moving back after they have conformed veeley pushard trying to find out what the germans were unnoting back because they realized that the germans are absolutely
holding strong said don this pershore they got a basically ambushed and now they pulled back after you know like i said confirming where the germans were that we look to
accomplish this being to accomplish finding out with the germans were to accomplish this had cost us leslie doyle and the absent barfael wall two men in toils leading section were
dead and the two scouts were missing probably either killed or made prisoner seven all the men had been wounded including another sergeant this is a total of thirteen casualties
with another nine men lost when we landed with nothing at all accomplished over twenty men had already been killed or injured and now the italian was moving in the wrong direction
back the way we had come and you're going to be in a find them in this is what makes this story so i so devastating is that it you know i talk on murphy's long things go wrong the
these guys are complete its iust murphy's long over an over gained in most of the books that we read on here there are triumph and thervith at the end and and you can see right
now already where the is heading we got twenty guys wounded or killed and instead of moving forward were actually moving backward m back to the book sooner than expected we
reached the battalion base and had been sighted in a rectangular patch of wood about twenty acres in side lying just north of the railway it was two thirty a m a horrible hour
especially so if one is tired cold and hungry thank god it would be starting to get light in a couple of hours what would happen to morrow something had gone very wrong indeed by
now we should be dug in on the high ground north of argum waiting for the germans to counter at that the bridges instead we were sitting here in the woods only a few miles from
where we had dropped with strong enemy forces between ourselves and the city where the men of first brigade must be fighting for their lives wherever one turned there seem to be
german troops and good ones at that the men who stopped us had not behaved like rear area troops scrape together to put up some sort of resistance but it fought with skill and
tenacity the slit trances were dug and every one except for the double centuries in each section and the officers and inscios on duty was sound asleep the men hump like dogs some
curled up with a companion for warmth lying in their full equipment their weapons tied to their wrists by the slings i should be asleep too not sitting in worrying feeling sorry
for myself but trying to get some rest in preparation for the coming day stand too would be at zero for thirty hours half an hour before first light whenever one to be awake and
ready in this slit weapon poised for a possible dawn attack so the dogana of course it's not looking good this point they're going to stand to it zerffii which is pretty common
going to be up before the sunrise and you want to be up before the enemy as well now they get together and get some word he regola to the book it did not take long i did not take
the colonel long to give us our orders the brigade was to renew its effort to reach the bridge and bring relief to the men still fighting there so pretty simple straightforward
gold and in order to achieve this goal they set up to do an attack on this little section of woods where they think there's a bunch of germans in harrigan to the book the leading
sections plunged into the wood and disappeared there were no enemy there at all the information from brigade must have been wrong we attacked and taken and empty position never
was there such an anti climax but never was an anti climax more welcome now we get a little visit upon the front lines he regato book as the small spare figure stepped out of the
first vehicle i realized that it was the first time i'd seen the brigadier commander since we left england he was just the same as ever relaxed and smiling that was nothing new to
him he had been through the worst of the desert war muddle in no way disconcerted him at least not outwardly eenteresting he uses it emotion the faggots model when he don't really
know what's happening he talks about how the veterans are used to it in a can and accustomed to it and i can deal with it modeling no way disconcerted him at least not how worldly
he seemed to anticipate it understanding how judgment and behaviour was in pared by danger wherever he went he inspired confidence with his gentle eyes and friendly manner for
regular cavalry officer his background was unusual he had come to his regiment not from sandhurst but from oxford with a double first and fluency in a half a dozen languages and i
love the sign readier he wore his loaning light need lightly as he did his decorations meaning is guy's highly educated and highly decorated with edonian it knew it was rare for
soldiers to be aware of all ceres more senior than the colonels who commanded their battalions but every man in the brigade would recognize could recognize a name the brigadier
the two visitors did not stay long but their appearance was a tonic for all it was a reminder that that there were able men in charge even though the battle was developing in a
rather odd manner now as they as he continues in these situation back to the book suddenly my preoccupation my preoccupation with the problems of others ceased there was a
familiar wine overhead and i found myself propelled into the half dug trench all but on top of galbratha robert the action had been a reflex i knew that i had made no conscience
decision to jump as i lay there with my second in command and trenching tool carving into a ridge on my left but uktha mortar bomb burst about eight feet to the right the stream
of the shards of jagged metal passing just overhead failed my ears as earth and stone spattered down on top of us the stench of high explosive filled my filled the trench my face
i found was pressed in his a course material of corporal galbreath battle trousers gingerly raising my head i peered over the low parapet at the foot of the h of a tree some
fifteen yards away lay a motionless heap a green and caliban which did not stir jumping out of the trench i ran across and turned over the limp body the head fell back to shore
the open staring eyes and sergeant hawks one of the seven polton section commanders a bright young ay and so only just promoted who'd been with the potation since the day i was
raised he was another old friend at first i could see no sign of injury but then i noticed the small hole in the back of hawk's helmet and the thin stream of blood striking the
back of his neck lying by hugginses seemed to count seven explosions all just a little further away than the first but still close enough to smell the hot gases there was a short
pause and then as if it were not after thought an ace bomb struck the branches of the tree just above us directing its hot metal splinters down to the trenches below a half
strangled cry of distress brought my head up just in time to see corporal pitcher clamber out of his sled and rathaus the towards the cry his haversack of medical supplies marked
with its red cross dangling from his hand bepalaced no more than a half a minute again the wine again i ducked this was the covering fire for a counter attack or the was this the
covering fire for a counter attack or were the bohmer harassing us spitefully but when i raised my head from higgins from huggins boots to look around i was relieved to see one of
the seven button brengues his helmet and eyes just above the level of the parapet gazing down the track towards his front so the centuries were still doing their job the fire was
not forcing their heads down their there if this was the covering fire for natak we would not be caught unawares so that's the standard procedure right here for the germans and
really for anyone it's covering move right we put in big bands we put in mortars we put our in artillery and while our hiding and while your ducking down see don't get killed they
maneuvered and then right at right when they get so close that there in danger of their own artillery they are tileston and then they proceed with the assault here we go the low
now there's a wall of a low provided a chance to finish digging there was no longer any need to persuade the pen to dig faster the lesson had really been driven home we've been
dating for no more than a few minutes when the sound of firing to the north slackened but the noise from the vehicles in front had increased the thought of guns only for you
hundred yards away with punctuated by the hammering of brands by the way brinstead the prins are sort of the weapon the british machinegun verses the the span now which is which
is the german machine guns in w they use the the brittanyer can use that term span out to talk about basically heavy machine heavier machine guns but but it asks what they're
talking about what talabot spend out and in a brand is the brit machinegun both ford paton's were in action and i had placed a company headquarters too far back to be able to see
what was happening the walkyries were silent also i worried about the sitting of the batoon some three hundred yards of part each isolated in its own corner of the woods and
unable to support the others against a determined attack this is so important for tataite out there think about these lessons and these are lessons that i talk about all the time
and easeless on that i used to ave to teach all the time so you've got your platoons there out there doing something you need to be close enough that you have communications with
them said that you actually understand what's happening in this is the same in the business world if you put yourself in a position where you can will you don't understand what's
happening in the field then you're not going to be able to help you're not an gold to support your not going to be able to to understand what's happening so you can make decisions
so in this point he's position him the self to far away on top of that he positioned his poltoon too far apart from each other so if you're too far apart from each other you can't
cover for each other if you can't cover you can't move and if you can't move you can't win so those are critical points make sure your command possession is close enough not so
close that you're getting in the fire fight note not so close to your pin nown but close enough to that you understand what is happening and then if you have multiple elements in
the field you get them close enough to each other that they can support each other always he sees a guy running back and here we go back to book it was sergeant pryor one of
nesbitese tion commanders around her sulky man able and well educated but with a grudge against authority his left hand prior grasped his stand in a grip so firm that the knuckles
showed blue under his under the sunburn his right arm from which clothing had been caught away at the shoulder was thrust into the fun of his smock the elbow covered by a blood
stain dressing his face was white with shock and taught with pain a morphine tion was doing little to leave the agony of an elbow smashed by a bullet the news prior brought was
serious the vehicles which we could hear were both ormandine backwards and forward along the road and sweeping the front of nine buton's position secure from retaliation so far
the armor had only claimed prior but sergeant avenel had been killed by a mortara as he dashed across between a couple of trees to put some question to nesbit this inexorable loss
of skill leaders was serious in our parhelions on like usual infantry units section leaders rank the sergeant not corporals nine patton had now lost not only its officer but three
of its four sergeants as well hawks was dead and one of seven botoneros commanders had failed to appear the randevoue the drop already nearly half the sergeants had become
casualties this is just a nightmare unfolding back to the book after we'd put the final touches on our slitten time was found a scrape a shallow grave for sergeant hawks it was
hard to suppress one's revulsion at touching the body of some one i had known so well but just as i was stealing myself to do so hugginses forward ripped open the dead man's smock
and shirt and slipped one of the two identity disks over the blood stained head the sergeant major then unbuckled his watch and searched a pocket for anything which might be
useful a more fusser inge and a field dressing a bar of chocolate a couple of mills grenades to packed of cigarettes and a box of matches a couple of maps and a pocket knife there
was nothing personal except for a grubby envelope containing a half a dozen faded and dog eared snap shots of the stout smiling girl holding a baby for buttoning the envelope into
his breast pocket huggin slipped the identity disk between the photographs i was helping corporal perched shovelled the earth back over hawks body listening with one ear to hug
and sharing the dead man's ammunition than other possessions among the members of the company had quarters when suddenly i became aware of jimmie grey standing beside me
apparently anxious to speak but diffident at interrupting telling picaroonish the job i rose from my knees glad to be able to put my mind to something else when i turned to speak
to grey i was disturbed by one i saw the dirt of battle had exaggerated his usual stuffiness his smock and trousers were coated with mud and dust and his right sleeve was stained
from top to bottom with blood not his own as he explained when he saw my eyes fixed on it the front of his smock and the battle dressed onderneath had been torn by a large
fragment of a mortar bomb which in some miraculous fashion it failed to even scratch him three inches to one side and it would have been set and it would have severed his head but
it was the eyes above the pallid unshaven cheeks which were frightening they were empty of life when he spoke the word elosed and well chosen his ever but the voice lacked
expression the phrases were cold it was not as if he were describing events which he had himself witnessed but something unreal something half imagined b company it attacked at
zeredah hours at the start their advanced though the woods had gone like the first attack of the morning of calm and steady progress against the seemingly non existent enemy then
some hundred yards short of the objective of soft of fire it cut down the men of the two leading plotoons the half grown trees in the sparse undergrowth had neither neither hidden
them nor shielded them from the inner locking arcs of the enemy weapons which covered every inch of ground it was just possible that they might have been able to deal with the
machine guns alone but the armor was too much for them pumping shells into the men at near point blank range gray it seemed it all happened the colonel had tried to stop the
attack as soon as the full strength of the enemy position had become clear but by then more than half the men of the two leading pontoons had been killed or wounded both
subalterns were dead the other officers and the seam had all been wounded the colonel had tried to turn the german flank by sending a company round to the left but there was no
flank the second attack had been replico the first it to had collapsed but not before some forty more men were dead or maimed including two of the force of viting officers airy
bates had been terribly wounded in the stomach and by now was probably dead as greed pulled him behind some cover his blooded soaked to sleeve this was not the complete story
there was further bad news not only had our own attack been shattered but the other battalion two or north had hit similar enemy positions and was making little progress progress
in its efforts to get into our name along the main road from somewhere or other the bow shot found enough troops of quality good enough to smash the brigades attempt to reach the
city so we disseverable situation on folding back to the book from far away in the distance came the drum of powerful aeroplane engines as it was the first to spot that minute
shapes first circling and then diving out of a sun towards us the noise changing to a shriek as the machine swept down towards the wood towards the woods from a half a dozen
different directions a happy shout of spit fires rose from the trenches at last some help it arrived from the outside world the lad had arrived to give us closer support and
that's you know we've had a closer support save the day many times in in in books that we talked about on this pot cast as i gave up at the dozen spits screaming down to stray the
bowpots on the sloping red head nesbits voice suddenly roared in my ear shouting to every one to get their heads down and hide their faces as i ducked with the rest i spotted the
black crosses on the wings the aircraft were not ours but german measures are air superiority was so overwhelming that it never occurred to any one that the machines might be
hostile they were not diving on to the enemy positions but on to our own i gazed skywards the measurement was so close that i could see the pilot's face through rockets detach
themselves in the wings and swamped down to explode seconds later in the woods where the survivors of a and b compas were settling into their new positions as i ducked once more
there was another scream of engines from behind followed by the sound of a storm of bullets striking branches on the trees on the other side two air craft which had discharged
their rockets were now carrying out a second run straying with their machine guns as i squeezed even closer to the earth at the bottom of the shallow trench the reverberations of
an explosion some fifty yards away pounded my ear drums it was another rocket suddenly it ended the air craft had vanished as quickly as they had arrived while the cause at this
point the the the british namerican had almost total air domination and so every one just completely assumed that of thank god you're come some spitfires to come and save us and
and they were wrong now the the air we did have ardoina tion for the most part and one of the things that they needed as you as you heard the airborne troops they can ly carry so
much and so there they're going to need rest applies they need more ammunitions that need medical gear that need food they need water they need stuff to be dropped to them and so
there was a plan in place for them to have dear and food equipment in munition dropped to them at these locations where they were supposed to be because remember they're supposed
to be making progress is all time there are not making progress but they are supposed to be making progress and since communication is so bad they can't call back and say hey were
not worse supposed to be worlder here dropped the gear all not but the gear gets dropped in the pre plane positions which of course our enemy positions smooth but here's what it
sounds like for them or hears what they're thinking on the ground then to the south of us i saw the familiar shape of a line of the cotes approaching at about a thousand feet in a
minute the sky was crammed with them it was the first supply drop about which we had been told that the brief ings but the drops on as a couple of miles away over the other side
of the hill right in the middle of enemy positions by now of course the division should have captured the area but the bow still held it news of the progress the battle could not
have reached the raft or the pilots would have diverted a drop their supplies elsewhere now they can see this happening and the people that are in the plains their called the alec
the royal army service corps they run basically the supply in the logistics and an help resupply and drop disfacimento so this is his as he's watching all these dakotas the
dakotas of these old transport planes it's actually what they perished of and now there watching them drop this resupply back to the book among the mass a single dakota just
overhead caught my attention it had already been hit and flames were creeping down from the starboard engine toward the cockpit as it was height the cake clad lasciate were
standing at the open doorway pushing out the penny airs of supplies those the bags of supplies i could see their faces the fire was on their side of the plain the wind was burning
before their eyes the dakota was now little more than three hundred feet above the ground if the men at the door jumped now they might just save themselves in a second or two more
the aircraft would be so low that their parishes would not have time to open this the men must have known but they went on with their routine drill pushing out the ten airs
regardless of what would happen to them then the starboard wing crumpled the flaming plain disappeared beyond the trees the pannier still falling from the open door the sky was
empty the last plan had gone but we still stood watching the place where the dacotah morning the futility of the self sacrifice we had just witnessed turningon that guys just
continuing to do their job knowing their faith at their there senior officers at this point and their incos are are starting to get hit pretty regular be by snipers and so he
decided to telesinus hay take your take your rank off your uniform gaseion want the enemy to know and he tells us to one of his done of his leaders name named robert and he says
as i watched robert slip his captain stars off his shoulders and tucked them away in his pocket i knew for certain that my second in command disapproved officer should show
themselves as such to one of his guy's thicken no where officers we need to when you do stand out he distand up now i mentioned of the american forces the eighty second in a
hundred first and the british forces there was also a polish parish brigade that was coming in on this attack as well and they were scheduled to come a little bit later as
reinforcements and here we go back to decatur only then did i remember that the glider borne part of the polish pershuaded was due to land that afternoon upon the stretch of enemy
of the upon the stretch of open country below us at the same time as the paris shop betans were dropped in the holderlin south of aremberg's the landing one was already a battle
field and the wretched poles were about to land in the middle of it first to gliders had the ground its massive weight tearing up chunks of stubbles it skidded to a hole lurching
on to one wing as it did sell men jumped out and rush to the rear and relicto release the tail unit that the vehicles and side could be driven out to more gliders were not
ploughing across the ground another exploded in the air and a vast ball of yellow flame just as it was upon the point of touching down mortar bombs were bursting among the men
struggling to release their loads while streams have chased tracer bisected the scene into oddly formal patterns another gladder was on fire on the ground as still more swooped in
to land adding to the chaos the poles were now joining in the battle themselves some firing toward the germans some towards that chaos b which is a the king's own scottish borders
it's an it's another british unit and some in the direction of our other battalion he must be impossible for the poles to distinguish enemy from friend they probably thought they
had landed in a circle of bounds all intent upon their destruction in a few minutes it was all over from the wrecked and flaming gliders which now littered the ground small
parties of poles were making their escape fire net anything they saw a move two or three vehicles had been driven away but otherwise they had failed the dragger gang guns from the
gliders the polish anti tank battery no longer existed as a fighting unit it had landed in the middle of a battle and been destroyed before it could fire a single shot waste it
was waste once again waste like the supply drop nothing seemed to go right a knot of some eight poles charged towards us intent on seeking shelter either in the woods or behind
the safety of a railway embankment some thirty yards away one man slightly ahead of the others must have noticed our camoflage tall helmets in the slit trenches ahead and shouted
a warning in a bunch they flung themselves into the undergrowth anticipating what would happen i yelled to every one to get their heads down just as a hail of bullets from the
pole to whistled over our heads a few hitting the trench pair of piteous striking the trees well above our heads as the excited men emptied their weapons in our direction so long
as we kept our heads down we were safe from the polish fire but the worry was that some of them might creep closer and started to fling a durned around however in a couple of
minutes the firing slackened and then ceased possibly the pole sent that something might be wrong when no one retaliated the comparative silence provided the opportunity to shout
a warning across the narrow stretch of ground which separated us there was no reply and i shouted once again in faltering english a voice inquired who we were firmly the
complaisant major h huggins told them the pole seemed to understand after a few seconds of audible consultation they rose to their feet and walked across so you got a just a
chaotic situation the pole and are getting attack from all directions and sereno their shooting at the friendly forces beoble happening once you get them settled down he's got
some people some of these polish folks that now have no leadership back to be calling douglass over i told him that he now had a fort section in seven poltoon and within a few
minutes the poles were digging hard under the tutelage of their corpl the only comprehensible part of whose name sounded like peter the digging had hardly started when a jeep
roared down the track in the direction from the direction of the battalion headquarters as it break to stop in the cover of the trees jimmy get gray jumped out and ran towards us
grave news was startling we were all to withdraw to wolf hazen in fifteen minutes time one could not just stand up and walk away from an enemy right on one's heels in daylight the
only way to withdraw was to move by bounds with peons and companies covering one another back any other plan was madness things over in the north must be bad indeed for the
colonel to be rushed in this way but graze instructions were unshaked so their digging in their getting order get out of here wirgles and he said okay that's fine but guess what
even when you leave you still use the fun of enfonces cover moffat's what he's wanting to do so now there all the retreat and the ego back to the book that pace was far too quick
some men were all but running to keep up as i had expected little by little cohesion was starting to break down some of the men of the mortifition had overtaken us to spite the
weight of the loads and were mixed in among us there were two small groups from another unit the middle of seven button from somewhere in the front a long way off a span all spent
senate bullets flying hamestrap but men were looking apprehensive and flinching we were now under fire from two different directions and any man at the bows would find the range
and then the slaughter would be gin it was no longer an order of be retreat that we draw was taking on the nature of a horde of men seeking safety soon discipline would crack and
every one would start to run what a target we must be some five hundred men from four o five different units rapidly cousin into a solid moving mass yet this is just a nightmare
and and you can imagine it's an individual thing and you're gone some great leadership examples but it's an individual thing because if you can keep the teams working together
covering a moving for each other that's good you're going to keep the enemy's heads down but if if people in the group start sang you know what i'm not going to cover in going to
want you and now no one's covering and now you've got a bunch of people that are moving and no cover and that's when you're goin to get slaughterly you get slaughtered by by
people better shooting at you but if you are not putting down cover fire the enemy maneuvers may they don't just sit there i mean some of them we shooting but they'll be shooting
but other elements themar going a move and they're going to be to cut you off they finally do make it back and he getheilt le bit of luck here he we go back to the book we caught
her breath in the wood for the tegetthof david's men had disappeared and he was no sign of the colonel or of the vitalian head quarters no one had followed us we were in velasco's
but a quick check told me that only robert watson the seam and three or four other men were missing in addition to seven polson of the latter there was nothing to be seen in all
there were still about fifty men with me not counting peter and his seven pole still clinging tenaciously to us perhaps i should try to get back across the bullets spattered and
bankment to find out what had happened to the others but the noise of the battle was getting louder the bowmont be closing in the vital thing must be to rejoin the rest of the
italian with the fifty men i still had and not to leave them and look tiler's charge while i returned on what could be a fool hardy errand but it was difficult to avoid the
thought that perhaps i was reluctant reluctant to climb back over the top of that embankment so he he does make it to this wood reason have everybody with him that he's
questioning self shigo back over there and risk it or not and part of his part of his rationalizing you know it the best thing ducebat with a rest of the talantaton him his saying
your rationalizing this at you're just your just not year you'll be a coward but he does he he proceeded all of the town he knows he gonagall if he goes over that he can hear the
enemy coming so back to the book ten minutes later we found the remnants of the battalion half of a company the more burst and what was left of the machine guns were still were
missing as well as our own seven poltoon more than one third of the men who had withdrawn from the woods had failed to cross the railway we were now down to no more than a couple
of hundred men so that we're going where down to a couple of hundred men from five or six hundred men in the battalion maybe even the little bit more maybe there might been seven
hundred men in the battalion they get word once again here's what's going to happen to morrow at first light the brigade would move on to ooster beak said joined the rest of the
division but unless ammunition together with air and artillery support was forthcoming the prospects were far from good we were it seemed not opposed by a few third line troops
elements of three as pans or divisions had been identified in the battle the german seemed to move quickly or of something had gone wrong with the intelligence it was not
surprising that the day's fighting had been so very bitter so there pointing out that they weren't going against you know third rate troops there going on against ses pansard of
visions the best of the german soldiers in talking with sergeant major bower and sergeant as bit before i reached tyler's platoon i done my best to be as cheerful as possible but
it was plain that the two ansioes realized that i was making the best of things with lotier it was different i could not insult him by trying to disguise our straight i just told
him the facts as i had received them from the colonel possibly it was a mistake quite suddenly the failure of it all oppressed me in less than thirty six hours two thirds of the
battalion had gone fifteen rifle company officers had landed only two were left ten for certain had either been killed or wounded the chances of surviving another day were small
fatigue and hunger a drained me there was a need to unburden myself luke was junior in my rank but equally years and in any case it was easier to confide in some one who was in
many ways a stranger even as i spoke i was ashamed of this weakness but there was no stopping whitly luke gave me the reassurance i needed the iron needed to sustain oneself
through such a day was easily expended and i felt that i had prolonged some of upsher so he be basically a moth to one of his guides or to what to an another another officer below
him in rank but what i think is interesting about this is he needed some one to talk to her he knew he was holding it all inside and wasn't saying a thing in china of positive and
even he is looking at his guys as he tell me don't regent worked be okay and his guard look at it like hay no we don't believe you and we we has to he feels the need to unload on
some one and that's why you know i i just think for my perspective you you know we always talk about relationships that you have on your team and for sure in your puttinati it's
really good to have some one that you can just kind of unload on that you know his professional enough to bolster you up without getting dragged down into your negativity and and
a lot of times i've found if if you have some one like that or maybe a couple of people like that in your team that you can talk to will guess what sometimes they're going to be
boltered and sometimes you are going to be bolstering there at itand so you got it you got a find some one like that that's in your tea that you can say man this is this horrible
the scoring and some that someone's going to go hey you know what it's not that bad whereinto it and in two or three days later he might become an you in saint hey this is
horrible situation i can't believe this new insano men were going to be all right so i i think it's important in that's again we're building relationships but that's one of the
reasons we build relationships they get into a hole up position back to the book on stand two rounds i found the polished trenches empty except for peter their corporal crouched
grimly behind his brand the rest of the party had vanished in the early hours sensing perhaps a day an attache themselves to an unlucky unit peter explained nothing but his
embarrassment was clear there was both unfair and pointless to press him for details when either pride or sense of duty had kept him there to fight among strangers the fought of
hate of wood have happened if the enemy an attack from this direction against the position held by one solitary man with chilling it was the mistake to trust strangers i had
learned yet another lesson felion only those you knew again it's interesting how he sometimes backs off instead of pressing wood were your guide he he knows i like what we what
point is that or when bartolome was was running away he pressed him superare and are going to get a boy there pointing her when he does press be but here he's decided is not going
to do it in the other in resting thing is here says i learned in another lesser eli you know not to trust stretch strangers in only those you know what you have to do in those
situations is you have to put some one that you do trust in that them with these units that you don't know so if you had to take in and he gave these he gave that section to one
of his buttonmakers said a got another section now but may be in bed one more guy or two more guys in there or split these guys up even more so instead of seven and one big bulk
you put two or three are two or three there two or three there night split em up a little bit and you cannot better control over them it's weird disney know there's opportunity to
desert though and these guys took le opportunity now the fighting rages all and obviously of a i have to fast forward through some of it and they eventually get into of little
village a little small village and have they taken down they taken some buildings and here we go there are these buildings back to the book we were in a mass the bosch were on the
other side of the valley out and numbered and out gunda there was not the slightest hope of reaching the back of the bread line this way and to stay here on this ford slope was
impossible at this rate we would all be dead or wounded soon somehow i had to get the survivors back up the hill but it was near but it was a near insuperable problem with the men
scattered down among the houses lawns and shrubberies shot at every time they moved some of called from the side of the house as i turned and looked private gregory darkeners the
throw himself down beside me under the dirt and two days scrub of beard his face was grayish he seemed about to vomit as gregory stammered out his button commander's name i knew
what had happened lieutenant tyler was dead that must have happened just after we parted luke could been killed on the steep garden path which led from the house down the road
head to him in hit by a sniper killed outright by a bullet through the heart when in a couple of yards of the place where gregory was lying possibly luke had been careless because
he was still dazed but he had to get back to his baton and the path was his only route so they had been together and they'd been hit by a some kind of artillery in the house and
it rattled them and then lukanon out to get back back to his botoner he left to get shot by a sniper back to the book this was how officers in nses were killed just doing their
routine job this is why casualties among the leaders were so high all the time that they were moving about checking here and couraging there backwards and forwards now besides
myself and only the quarter master sergeant bower and sergeant winner were left all the rest of the officers and sergeants in the company had gone one problem however had been
solved the remnants of tylerton sections had mannered man to extricate themselves without waiting for orders since last night private gregory had been in charge of one of the
other sections both the uncos having been hit the day before during that last mortstone a bomb and fallen right on top of the corporal who was commanding the other section blowing
him and his brand gutter half to pieces common sense had told the survivors to quit and there had been no one to stop them except gregory who for the moment was shaken by the
sight of what had happened to his friends and who in any case lacked the authority to hold them there no one else had been hit in the scramble back and the survivors were now
sheltering in the house so there in these houses and in for the first time burnet company commander start to realize these got people at the breaking point back to the book the
others were as uneasy as i was for the first time i was unhappy about them until now they endured the successive disasters but the events of the morning had tried them too far it
had been yesterday once again yet another failure failure against an enemy who was far too strong for us men were looking ginery some could be well near near breaking point as i
gazed down the stove trying to spot some activity among the bows a movement to the right commy eye about twenty yards away two of kelley's men were moving diagonally behind me
sheltered on the far side of the ridge theer theear deserves my shout made them hesitate then then stop after two or three more steps forgetting the enemy i stood up and strode
down towards them no explanation was necessary the surly gilt on their faces was enough deliberately choosing words for a fact i cursed them in language rarely used by officers
towards their shoulders it was enough the two men turned back towards their pucoon so like i said sometimes a you are very very straparola's two guys are trying to desert and he
goes on and and drop the hammer on him and get them back with their portunma the book in this mood the men would never stand up to an enemy attack even a more stock could break
them i could see it happening first one or two men would slip away like the two eyed just stopped and then a rush would follow something dressed it had to be done no more than the
occasional rifle bullet was now coming over in fact no one had been hit since we took our positions along this ridge it seemed safe enough standing up i began to walk along the
path toward the left of our position for the first few steps i felt wretchedly vulnerable but then an odd exertion seized me for the first few steps i felt wretchedly vulnerable
but then an odd exhilaration seized me not too slowly enough to quickly i strode deliberately towards the first group of men grinning down at lance corporalium i made some
annaperima about it being the wrong place for a company cork if i were to be hit it would happen any way now seemed to be as good a time as ever stopping at each group of men i
check their fine positions and made necessary changes than i was at the end of callison i started back conscious that every one was watching there was a burst of machine gun fire
well wide of us but i managed to avoid flinching at it suddenly sergeant we winders voice harsh with concern was yelling at me a get down demanding angrily what i was playing at
the spell broke i was grateful fully excused to lower myself down beside him very relieved that it was over the rage in winer's face dissolved into an unaccustomed grinned the
corny dramatics were over but they had served their purpose the man had got a grip on themselves so he facially stood up and walked around and talk to every one and made himself
visible and made himself appeared to not be scared to get the guise heads back in the day until his sergeant winder yells had man said hey dude get down when you gustier like the
desert is what do they go so they can head back towards towards the areas that have been secured to so as if beechen we landed de day june sixth this is now in september so you
know coalition forces or or some allied forces had posed in the france so a few can walk back you could eventually get to friendly lines ye and lat that's what their plan was and
then what that when you get there don't they know hey he deserted will you tell you know you say oh i was i got separated from my jaw when i perished in and i couldn't find my
people or aneer you now in your life and you do with it later with her cause right now you're thinking i'm not going to make it yet i want the it was clear wine nothing we had
heard nothing from battalion headquarters for the past two hours like every one else the signal let the signallers orderlys clerks had been fighting for their own survival the
germans were all around them and had been pressing them hard throughout the morning so not getting any information about what's happening this is this is interesting he goes back
to get they devenu with the little extra ammunition and he goes back to get some ammunition from the battalion they have got a like stage in the potala had quarters on a asides he
he it is the amieson was in a jeep and so he goes to the g be finds the gap and he with one of his other guys and there the regimental sergias sitting basically on topago the
ammunition and he kind of his look at at the guidons pay on here amonasro pultost there and a company of there i got to get them in munition and and he doesn't really move he just
kind of said there and so finally ah here was but the here the regimental sergeant major was in the middle of battle sitting on his art and taking his ease while a company
commander hunted for ammunition majors are not in the habit of rebuking regimental sergeant majors but this was too much the tensions of the morning had snapped myself restrain
restrain and in a couple of using sentences i told the rest the regimental sergeant major one i thought of him then the rare the regimental sergeant major apologized but he did
not move while any trace of irony or annoyance in his voice he quietly explained that he could not stand up because he had been shot through both legs i had not noticed the air
borne smock with which some one had covered his outstretched and bandaged legs think before you act now there on their way there heading finally to this area of wooster beak there
on their patrol and here we go back to bookstan ou opening up ahead sent us altho ground men diving for cover just a little too quickly a moment later a second gun fired on us
from the right but it was the there was the ominous rattle of the tract of vehicles which chilled the first one then another then two more quite close in influential er rising
above the din of the machine gun and rifles then some seventy yards away i saw the first of the asp guns its stubby weapon traversing slowly towards us as pagans are their
kindlike tanks its it self propelled conterive artillery pieces with tracks on em the flash from its stout of from it now was one of with the explosion of the bursting shell just
to the right a half grown tree shattered in a jagged splinters a second shot following hard on the first one covered harrison and me with earth we were swamped by the noise every
sort of weapon seemed to be firing grenades were exploding but the distinct above the rest was the clank and the troyons of the armored guns caught like this in the open we were
helpless tanks ploughing among about among us could have been no worse there was no way of fighting back no one to seem to have even a pot which is like their basuta antinoe pon
and we could not get close enough to use a gam and bombs the bags of plastic explosive carried for the for us against armour so that another little tacebit bag of explosive that
you can put on a on a armor vehicle to destroy the com gamin bombs the men in front were moving again i stood up and signaled those behind to follow we were doubling now but there
was still some sort of control we were not running away but making for somewhere where i did not know then about a hundred yards away i caught a glimpse through the trees of a
german half track it stopped and helmet to shapes jumped from its sides how many more of them were there this could be the start of another attack which could only end it all our
will to fight back with all but broken then i heard the brig the brigadier telling me to clear the enemy out of the hollow after which the survivors of the brigade would join us
there see company it seemed was the last organized body of troops so that looking up this area this open area withersome enemy but it looks like it's a good position of course
there will to fight is just about broken and you hear the brigadier is saying hey take your company and clear out that hollow go back to the book for a moment i was so dumbfounded
that i hardly heard the brigadier going on to say that the brigade major was dead as well killed about five minutes ago another friend was gone but i hardly listened what was the
brig dear ordering us to do in his quiet and determined fashion it was absurd the men were finished only a few minutes ago i had realized that they were past tepending themselves
now we were being told to a soap that bow position the brigadiers look was both quizzical and encouraging the confounded man could see what was passing through my mind then i was
away dodging back and through the bushes toward the men in the ditch even more aware than ever before of the bullets singing overhead with my back to a broad tree which hid me
from the enemy front i looked down at the upturned faces there was no point in wasting at all in wasting time on details the orders i had to give them or quite simple devoid of
any complications such as who would provide a covering fire it was time for play acting again my naturally loud voice tearing down the line of men among the above the sound of
battles i bawled at them to follow me adding the comment that is better to be killed going for the masters then lying in that bloody ditch no one hesitated the men rose to their
feet at the moment i stepped out in the open from behind the shelter of the tree glancing through my right i was exhilarated by the sight of david on wind solid bulk running
parallel to me and half a dozen of his men following david shouted something to the effect that they were coming as well and i waved my stand gun in acknowledgment behind me
sergeant wider broke into a scream of rage harsh and furious the yell spread down the line too heavily laden and two tired to sprint we lumbered forward towards the enemy a sort
of jog trot now i was careless of everything we did not stand a chance but this was the right way to go this was the proper way of finish it all nearly a sterical now with rage
and excitement i heard my own voice join in the screaming the germans were shooting at us i could see flashes of their weapons springing out of the gloom of the trees there was no
need to look back to confirm that the line of men was still following the noise told me they were there now the bows were no more than fifty yards away as i brought my stan down
to her level the press the trigger it flashed through my mind that it was the first time i had fired my weapon since the battle started my forefinger squeezed a metal nothing
happened it had jammed here i was running toward the enemy with a useless piece of metal in my hands there were figures moving among the trees first a couple than a half dozen
dark shapes were outlined against the green background men spring to away men disappearing through the trees the bowere running away we had done it we had driven the enemy out at
the point of bayonet this was the ultimate in war the sight of the savage screaming parishes streaming towards them had been too much for the germans even though they had to do
nothing more than keep their heads and shoot straight yes so there you go surrounded broke in and i think keypoint here when your think your broken do something and do something
aggressive that's that's the deistic one percent defaulters notions is you know what where her were being defensive were hiding in our sledaass okay you know we're going to do
were going to attack we're going to attack full force her back to book the sight of david all the right added to my delight shouting to him to hold the right in the hollow i
directed sergeant winer round to the left there was no need to tell any one to hurry they all knew that the germans would not delay in mounting a counter attack a moan of terror
distracted me i turned to the wounded german the man's features were contorted into a rick diodes pair above him stood sergeant major kelly red eyed and panting his band at raised
above the soldier stomach but kelly did not strike he was relishing the moment snatching maximum pleasure from the wounded man's anguish before he sliced it sliced into the soft
belly as my newly found mother knocked the bayonet to one side the sergeant major smallman an unspoken protest at such silly scruples then he seemed to shake himself the blood
lust his bad past they came to his senses gathering his men to the defenses so again goes guy goes from the pure fury and rage of this incredible bayonet or salt and then khemeia
ely just puts his one of a ergimo's in check his about through you know it ruthlessly killed his wounded guy on very interesting dicotomy there back to book something had been
snatched back from the disasters of the day the remnants of the brigade head quarters together with a few stragglers from other units had now all arrived in all their seemed to be
mona hundred and fifty men with a half a dozen officers as well as the brigadier david i myself there was jimmy grey the latter brought news that the colonel was probably dead
although he could not be sure as they'd become separated during a scrimmage with an spaun of the rest of the officers who had jumped with italian captain john simmons begun er for
observer was the only left one left continuing after about fifteen minutes a low and shooting suggested that i might now be able to get round to visit the batalion positions the
batallion for the first time it struck me that i was now in command of what was left of it pitiful remnant but they are still fighting the brigadier had allowed the south and west
sides of the prematoor the first pit held sergeant winer with seven or eight men at the bottom his eyes shut lay a gray faced and motionless private gregory shot through his
stomach corporal pritchard had bands demain give him a shot of morphia but because his air born smock had been pulled down over his blood stained dressing to keep his warm as
possible he laid there with no outward sign of injury looking as a man might do who had collapsed with exhaustion gregory's eyes opened when he saw who was standing over him he
asked for the favour his voice was quiet his words measured and coherent his proposal quite logical out here without the help of a doctor he was going to die in any case and he
could stand the pain no longer what someone please put a bullet through his head for the moment my grip tightened on the mouse and gregory state i probably would have been asking
for the same release if it did happen i hope that some one would have the guts to give it to me then i call winer's eye then he knew that i could not do it the only way to help
gregory was to give him a further shot of morphia dangerous though it would be to do so as i reached for my own ample in the breast pocket of my smock i was ashamed by my
reluctance the reason was purely selfish sooner or later i might want to use it on myself wounded in alone behind a bush with no one about to help me but sergeant white came to
the rescue he had scrounged a couple a supply of ambles from somewhere another opening the small black tin he bared gregory's arm and pressed the needle home the words of sympathy
and encouragement sounded a pitifully trite as i pressed gregory shoulder nervous of any reproach which i might see i turned and walked away without looking at the wounded man's
face my name was being called it was private jones slivering towards me down the opposite slope of a hollow jones told me quickly i was major unwin killed by a sniper shot through
the forehead as he was peering over the rim of the hollow trying to locate the whereabouts of a span o machine gun he died instantly jonas adamant there was no doubt that he was
dead his brain had been blown out jones was urging me to come see body but i could not bring myself to do so the it could not be dead the cordwood not have killed david everyone
else yes one after another friends had died but i never believed that this could happen to david so vast so indestructible that humorous gentle david the brigadier was beside me
he had also heard the news for nearly two years he had known us both and it was plain that he understood the anguish but there were other things to think about as we knew only too
well the bring near told us or ammunition was nearly finished and as her own fire slackened the enemy snipers were becoming bolder and more men were being hit soon would be forced
to surrender so he had decided to take the initiative we would break out towards osterbeek charging through the enemy and solid mass trusting our numbers and impetus get through
it was an extraordinary plan for the second time that day the brigadier was ordering us to do what seemed impossible but our trust in the brigades judgment was now implicit it was
a gamble but one which offered at least a chance of success to stay here would only one end one way fifteen minutes later we were ready it could have been the start aerate the
brigadier asked whether we were ready then at his shout the hundred of us rose to our feet and exploded in a solid master with a lip of a hollow in front was the brigadier himself
leading the way behind came the yelling screaming men filthy and blood stained weapons in their hands benet's dull and menacing a fearful sight to any one in our path the german
fire now seemed to be coming from every direction but i saw no one hit we were rushing down hill along a lane a solid human battering ram the first wild plate pace slackened the
firing stopped we had done it we were through the enemy and out of the forest for the second time that day boldness had saved us once again some defaulter dressed in activity and
in i mean obviously i i want to make it clear that in boyneth these situations it wasn't it wasn't it wasn't a call of hay there's a dara there's a objective we want to reach
charge it it was we can either sit here and do nothing and die or we can attack the that's he that's the big i don't want any one out there thinking oh camston every time dear of
the grass if on an arondell going to attack no these are situations where the alternative to attacking is is being defensive laying down and dying and continued to get picked off
snipers until you get over on ye now they meet up with finding the theme up with these other british troop back to the book someone was leading us into a garden of a large house
the men dropped their ground as they halted conscious that they were now safe with houses and other bridler british troops around them others after a swig from a water bottle lay
supine unconscious in instant sleep i counted them jimmy grey john simmons and sergeant winder where there starger kelly was missing some one had seen him fall in the rush there
were just forty nine other men about half from sea company last night there had been two hundred the night before five hundred now there are these positions and there about to get
attacked just below in the garden but out of sight another bran opened up it was jimmy gray century up the garden gate there was a glimpse of a camford running through the trees
opposite no more than a hundred yards away digny across our front towards the air landing troops then a couple more jimmy's bran fired again and one of the figures pitched forward
rolling over tarried on by its own momentum we would not we would have to fight in this is their their talking takeout the fact that they're in the houses now in these in his
village we would have to fight from the house itself not from the trenches in the garden it was a sturdy building with thick solid walls and in any case the garden was too small
for the purpose from these upper windows we would have an extra range and observation to fire diggle down the road in front of the houses held by units to the left and right
fifteen minutes later the trim dutch house had been wrecked every pane of glass had been smashed and every picture mere knockin the walls there was no time to be careful in the
center of each room barricades had been built well back from the windows out of sight of the bow but sighted so that every scrap of ground outside was covered sideboards and
chests are drawer stuffed with books are being made the barricades contents of the furniture flung in heaps in the corners of the rooms mattresses were rolled down to the basement
ready for us if needed by wounded men more books crammed into drawers were blocking those windows not required for shooting through fortunately the older of the house possessed a
fine library from its contents seemed a wise doctor with gray i walked around the house for a final check before leaving to return to my own headquarters at the rear maniania
swept through it some woman's life work ruined in the time it took to drink a cup of coffee an explosion from above followed by the clatter of tiles falling from the roof drowned
out the noise from the gun another bomb burst in the garden just outside the window sending a couple of fragments whistling into the room now the bouchere hitting us with more
dress well a bullet splintered of the empty frame behind me and buried itself in the ceiling a warning now is far too close to the back bedroom window there was a sniper behind us
as well as the span out a quick movement in the garden of the house caught my eye then two figures in the wrong sort of camoflage darted from behind a bush into the shelter of a
wall they were both not british so now the enemy was indeed all around us there was no doubt about it now john simmons and his men were in the houses where they had been left that
morning john had made strong points out of a couple of houses smaller but just as robust as the ones held by grey the two groups had been working closely together largely i felt
certain because of john's charm of manner in determination this young gun had done very well it hardly seemed possible that most of his men hardly knew him by sight yesterday to
day he is well did the survivors of four different companies of a unit into of another arm into a tight knit entity well capable of carrying on the fight all day the ethel firm
killing and wounding quite a lot of enemy be losing only one man themselves a corporal of a company whose hand had been blown in half by a flying mortar splinter lined in filthy
does face was eyes red rimmed and sin stained with three days worth of fair fuzzy down john still moved briskly a reminder to all of us that we could still keep going so he got
guys that are stepping up big time inside the houses we felt reasonably safe from the shells and bullets but there was always some cause for the officers and senor and seas to
move about in the open from one building to another it was the same as it been in the woods the officers and sergeants stood a traitor greater chance of being killed or wounded as
their men all the same it was easier for an officer with so much to do he had little time to worry about his own safety also he always had to try and act the part to set an
example to the others and officer had to exude confidence however hard it might be but because he always had to try to keep a grip on himself it helped him forget the danger very
true very true got a lot of things on your mind they get at the massive bombardment in these positions that there in back to the book of the germans must be softening a supination
for something more serious their ammunition seemed unlimited the bombardment ended quite suddenly rather as i did started this would be it noting williams to get his head up from
behind the barricade i shouted a warning to the others elkins and bow in the next room and the two signallers who had moved up to the bed room at the back the stutter of the brand
gun caught across the war the words bowers rifle thoughted next door and then williams was firing a succession of bursts from his brand gun in the orchard opposite germans were
running through the trees towards us several dropped this could only be the start of an attack now from either flank the sound of rifles and machine guns reached us accompanied by
the thought of exploding grenades the attack was coming in all along our front some of the germans among the fruit trees were firing back a couple of rifle bullets splintered the
fun of the wardrobe then more gray figures were lumbering towards us through the trees some fell others duck behind the puny trees they didn't stand a chance it was like shooting
targets on the press practice range the germans and the mortars had been forced to stop because their troops were so close it was so it was impuritas possible to fire slow
carefully aimed shots with little or no distraction the only way out of the orchard was through the single gap in the high sense but the enemy soldiers never got within twenty
yards of it a tall german officer was standing in the middle of the drive out in the open clear of the trees waving his arms to the men behind him no more than fifty yards away
every detail of his face and uniform was clearly visible he was a handsome young man fair haired and smartly turned out already he'd been standing there for about five seconds
encouraging his men to advance as i leveled my sights on the german officer i knew that i was looking at some one who was just about to die it seemed a pity he was such a
courageous boy just the sort just the sort one would like to have had as a pattoniana my finger started to squeeze the trigger but it was too late some one else had fired the
german fell spread eagled and lay still at least he died quickly the death of the young officer marked the end of the attack now no one moved in the orchard except for a single
wounded man squirming his way back through the trees so it's interesting when you you take the leader and the leader goes down and the attacks over now a also important to know
that although the leader stood up and encouraged the attack by taking that risk of being otterton of her one in this case i didn't work out well because he got shot killed and the
attack faltered perhaps if he could have found a little bit better a position to do that from then then maybe then maybe he would be alincourt ops and stay alive back to the book
but we had one no more than a temporary respite fifteen minutes later we could hear the unnerving noise once again tracks were clattering towards us so i haven't i i don't know
why i haven't talked about this yet but you have these airborne troops on the ground and their biggest fear is ten and maneuvered me talk many times about my love for tanks and
how effective and awesome they are as tools and as weapons and the way that the tankers lie them there just there is awesome machines but here you have the tables turned in and
the good guys don't have real any effective way of stopping these takes you can shoot a machinegun all day long at a at a pans or tank and it's not going to do a damn thing and so
it can just imbite way you hide a building cor a take all go right through a vilificat through buildings they will go right through a building like an looks like a construction
piece have equipment at's what it looks like in all go right through a belding like it's nothing so these guys are absolutely horrified of the tank showing up that's their fear
tramp tracks were clattering towards us a gun thundered and the dark red house opposite began to fall apart rat as round after round crashed into it muzzle flashes from the far
side of the orchard revealed the position of the attacker but there was nothing we could do at least the men were not waiting in the house but slipping one after another out the
door back across the road through the headquarter house on either side the guns were firing now it was our turn the the tank wrecks some of the houses and then at the tank leaves
so he regos it was time to strike back the tanks had gone and as yet the boasted not appear to have occupied the houses lying out there in the rear gardens overlooked from the
windows we were vonalis the morrin would start again then we would be safe or back in the ruin buildings as john simmons listened to the instructions the young captain's manner
was as relaxed as ever calm and outwardly self confident he somehow managed to give the impression that he was almost enjoying the morning's work possibly he was making that a
point subconsciously perhaps that a gun or could always take charge of thirty infantrymen but there were undoubtedly immense rose reserves and strength hidden behind that cool
exterior as he lay behind the bed of half dead peplan scanning the houses for any sign of german occupants there was no trace of disquiet in his voice as he discussed his orders
to counter attack and clear the street of the enemy fifteen minutes after john had gone i was still the same place in the vegetable patch watching the second hand of my watch
creep towards the top of the dial then gray weapon opened up on the right firing back in the back into the rooms of the houses more in the hope of distracting the enemy than
providing covering fire the danger to john's men lay on the other side the front of the house now john three brendon were firing as well on the left the assault party would soon
be moving into the street it came the sustained rattle of a span out gun first one then a second after that there was silence except for one or two rifle shots i waited lying in
the vegetable patch o vosotros with worry something was badly wrong nothing could be seen from year but i had to resist the temptation of going to find out for myself what had
happened i must avoid getting involved in the skirmish then corporal day now john second in command was running through the flower beds toward me days face said everything even
before he started to speak the attack had failed him it failed the moment john had been killed out there in the middle of the street and ten yards in front of day and the rest of
the assault party john had died in just the same way as that young german officer the morning that had finished it the rest of them including day had turned and run but in some
extraordinary way no one else had been hit day made no excuse no attempt to excuse himself telling the story factory and not crying to put a gloss on the incident the implication
was clear they had been asked to do too much so now i had been responsible for killing john as well it had been so simple i issued and then john and walked out into the middle
that road to be shot down by the machine gun i should not have done it the counter attack should never have been attempted the men were no longer capable of making such an effort
they could still hang on to their positions fighting from behind cover but after sixties of continuous battle they lacked the will to get to their feet and go for the enemy in the
woods it had just been possible to urge them forward in one last surge of will power but since then they endure a further forty eight hours of death starvation thirst and fatigue
and in the woods it was men from my own company to day it had been different to day a mixture of men survivors of four different companies had been left to follow a gunner officer
whom they hardly knew there was a limit to what soldiers could be asked to do and i had gone beyond those limits and so john simmons had died that's the burden of command back to
the book it was impossible to understand why the germans were not using their armor to support this infiltration by their infantry if they had done so all resistance would have
collapsed long ago and the tanks would have been on the lawns the crushing news that the brigadier had been badly wounded came through on the telephone just before the line went
dead once again the bows were now among the houses and gardens which the glider pilots had been holding and greed reported that he was being shot at from two sides at the same
time the quarter montmarte had also sent word that the enemy will behind him and that he had long ago lost all contact with the recens left they are just in a wretched state and
he goes to meet with the colonel and one of the buildings the colonel seemed to be trying to break something to to us gently at tennice out there was hard to believe harder still
to understand the division was to be withdrawn over the rhine that night it was all over it had been it had only been possible to fairy about two hundred and fifty men of the
dorsets over the river before dawn a profitless addition to the premier darrison the second army had over reached itself in trying to get to us and a low the troops were porporine
northward they lacked the strength to cross the river and continued the advance in the germany already to both were hammering from the flanks at their narrow lines of
communication solviati had failed everything had been in vain it was all a waste listening to the outline of what had to be done that night here was hard to concentrate on the
details the first emotion was grief the then uttered disappointment the potalon had been destroyed to no purpose and that's it they get the order that night to leave and they come
up with a plan they actually follow rope they put rope at night down towards the river where they're going to get extracted and at night they attempt to follow that rope down
there and of course along the way they lose more men men get separated men don't hang on they get lost and a loser men as they're trying to make it to their extraction point but
he does get end up with a small group of people at the extraction point there's canadian boats there to bring them across the rhine river back to the books the canadians were
already pulling the last men into the boat and i was standing with harrison alone in the river when i heard winders voice harshly insisting that no one would be left behind the
young coxede no further urging but import us to be careful as the boat was grossly overloaded then harrison pushed me up over the side and the two of us flopped down behind the
cocking as the engine winger and the boat moved towards the midstream the name get across the river they get dropped off and and to answer your question earlier once they get
dropped off in her on the other side the there on the western side of the rhine river it's basically secure area even though i was only you know several hundred yards away there
was relatively secure and now what they have to do as they have to march back about five miles to get to an even more secure base her welbeck the book as we reached the track
which after a few hundred yards let us to the road when i stopped the man flopped to the ground empty and lifeless lacking any wish to go on more parties of men appeared through
the darkness shambling in the exhaustion of relief all terror ended devoid of the will power needed to summon up further effort there was only one way to make the two mile march
barban old fashioned remedy i called the sergeant winer to fall the men in threes the discipline bark bounced back to me as one or pulled himself to his feet shouting to the men
to fall in there is no trace of querier surprise and whiners voice and the men shuffled to their feet that's that's your rotting right there that you are exhausted after eight
days of continuous combat or just done and deseret says all right on your feet form a calm a threes and you do it they get close to the end i am now they can see the camp and i
hold them there is only one way to end such a march it was pointless perhaps but i decided to make the final gesture bringing them to attention i ordered them to slow arms and de
march by the left through attention i sent their appreciation as their shoulders went back this was the way they always returned to camp this was the way they always finished as
they stepped off for the last fifty yards they reason swinging their arms so they marched back into this camp once they didn't this camp they get loaded up in two a a vehicle a
big military transport vehicle that too take them further to the rear woman and get some treatment and their loaded into that vehicle and here we go back to the book the canopy of
the truck now sheltered us but my shivering became uncontrollable i knew i was becoming light headed and colder myself grieving aloud for those that we had left behind
particularly for those who had been lost during the withdrawal down the river bank there was silence in the truck then i heard as if from a long way off the voice of sergeant
winder clo calm and flat saying that none of them would have got back if it had not been for me he was true to say that i would never have got back if it hadn't been for them but
i shall always be grateful to winder for having said it the next thing i remember was winner and harrison half carrying me into what seemed to be a hospital some one was stripping
off my clothes and dressing me in pajamas then i felt the prick of a needle in my arm i was awake the sun shining into the windows of the ward in orderly brought tea and food on a
tray i lay between the clean sheets looking at the torn and filthy garments on the chair by the side of the bed there was nothing wrong with me now i saw that my hand was wrapped
in a clean bandage when the nursing orderly came to remove the tray he brought me the message that a soldier was waiting in the corridor to see me as soon as the orderly left the
room i slept out of bed and put on my clothes and went out with a corridor waiting there was harrison a broad smile on his face telling me that captain gray and mister elkins and
turned up with aid of the missing men another twenty stragglers had also arrived from somewhere or another but that was the lot that was the batallion three officers and forty
three soldiers we walked out the door of the hospital side side by side the week soteer son shone down on the battered buildings away in the distance the dull rumble of the battle
still rolled down from the north and once all the men were a covered in that neteen of the book and when all the men were covered when you look at the actual battalion vandergilt
six pairs perseptable this three hundred thirteen men were captured many of those will wounded there was ninety eight kildonan and there was a total of sixty eight from the
battalion that made it across the rhine safely and those sixty eight men if they could he a up were then sent to the other battalions inside the first parapeted and the hundred
and fifty six parachute battalion was actually disbanded it ceased to exist geoffrey powel went on to retire from the army the british army in nineteen sixty four he retired as a
major general he was awarded the military cross which is britain's third highest award for valor and this is what is citation reeds at ornate his commanding officer become a
casualty major paul took command of the remnants of the battalion up to this time you conducted himself with the greatest gallantry for the remaining six days he retained control
of his unit and also of the men of other units in the area under the most difficult conditions have you fire for mortars artillery and self propelled guns never stopped as i
activity in getting round his section of the perimeter and encouraging his men to greater efforts throughout the whole period of the aramante in spite of being wounded this
officer showed himself to be a gallant leader of men and a most capable fighter and one whose bravery was a source of inspiration to the men under his command and to all those
around him and i think pretty clear that if you read a book like this general powis still a source of inspiration as are the rest of these incredibly brave men and also a source
of leadership lessons of what to do and what not to do in its also any carradaries of that heavy burden of command and the fact that the matter is when you lead you on every
decision and every action that not only of yourself but of your men and with that burden you o it to them to be as well prepared to be as tactily sound and to be as physically and
mean to ly strong as you can possibly be and that goes for any leadership position when you are a leader be as prepared as you possibly can and then you go out and you lead and
you lead with courage and you lead with resolution and you lead with boldness boldness what jeffreson the officers and the men a the hundred and fifty six persute mazing book that
you know like i said i i got this book six days ago or something somebody just set it to me and i gave it thee um the little tests when i can open books up as people say me a lot
of books sure and i gave it thee i gave it the test in or i open up i read a couple of sections in it immediately you know i'll give all all open to a buck in four five different
places to see what it reads like and this you know within the first page the first page at her inistow's like we have a winter here this one's going to be on the poast because
it's just in packful and the account now the in the back of the book he talks about the the individual diresome of em off here the brigadier was general john hackett the colonel
was dickie dive of the granite guards his fellow grenadier was serato did sergeant dennis gay his batman the gudaout harrison throughout the book the guide is there from the
beginning to the end always by his side it was actually dining fred tracy kinnegad anne on wind in the book is the carcan of book a real guy was named miguel page who had been
powless man and whose son jeffrey born posterous had another son named michael in lookter and sergeant winer and jones and johnsonites were all real people so they ysate guy that
a very similar to made yer john glover who said he had a hard time writing about himself in the first person yell i did this and i did that get a anything that powell said look at
a hard time writing until he just made it about some other he put made some other character in his own i and from that perspective tea man you definitely this book i'd like i said
i read i don't know five per cent of it it's not a huge buck though actually it's only a couple of hundred paces long and it's a very fast red did you find it to give you this
weird stressful feeling reading no absolute lineless nines like lorelei edress it is i i was i was debating when to tell you and when to tell every one that that that this is not
a good that this is the good story litis is an apostolic and i i kind o just i don't know when i actually said that he there not going to win i mean i said that the the operation
market garden was at was a failure but you know what is that really look like you don't i like you don't know what that looks like conti you get reading his book and then you
start to feel what it feels like and have solutely and and will you read the whole book man it is just coming a part it's just the little missfortune little miseries coming and
and they don't stop this don't stop mum it's say it's a nightmare senario and yeah under tons have great lessons lars itself so mazing cause i never read this but before i just
got it yet what is amazing cover move ye decentralized command yet even prior is next cut give in at that part when you keeping a simple right everything that that we learned the
you i should learn this years ago me and when i think about to no i was euola a your life right and you said yourself wilcove done better lani do different and you know everyone
in the selians like basically you get one shot at each job other than just being a a a shooter a potion that you can do three or four times she view lucky but then what you did
into a leadership position yer like yer necistate commander you do that one time then you are potenciana you do that one time then you are attacking a clatter you do that one time
generally sometimes sometimes denise to rarely guys do more than one of us same thing on the enlisted side guy gets de una a leading petty oscar does that one time chief patoff a
ton puttini does that one time senior chief in charge of a task out does that one time you don't get to repeat the jobs and so basically when your finely getting good at your job
you're done you're an now you got to go get the next jaws up the chain come and so for me it was always and now looking back and an even talking talking to my seal bodies now like
like how can we prepare them better said they know what we had to learn during the job it's it's it's a hard thing to do because excuse a lot of stuff you actually after learn
from experience and an actual we talked about that at the last muster which is that was a big part of we talked about you if you're going a good as something you have two choices
experience or training and training it away to condense experience down and distillin's great about when we when i was running training on the west coast we we got to really
condensed that experience of guise through guys went through hell acious training and were we provide teaches for them that most guys wouldn't experience a kind of chaos in their
whole career nor intend careers but they would get it and they would get pushed her perhaps that when when they got out of the battle field they were ready for the for the case i
was out there because we trained him and we pushed him further and harder during training then we hoped they would get passed post on the battlefield yes grazy even at that cover
in movine they are retreating lining showed like how you got to keep that as a discipline with that i suppose kinelike you know like an anemometer something and the guy i start to
get him he on the inside and rather then still covering up a little bit while he goes back he looked runs away or turn on her a some lernaean or heat is turned his incinerate you
but great book i definitely recommend it four year reading list ye there the teesta part in there that the guy came up to i think reload amor something whom they got sitting there
olaheite gets like scolded or whatever and you know turns out his wounded right you like that's kind of that as an interesting little less than there like you just don't know so
we you can't just start going off on softly true and and in off you may remember somebody asked us a question one time about you don't how to it these people that have had
everything given to them yes and i and i you do i've had a rider by lopoforti horatio you you you actually don't know what ter horseberg yet we had that whole discussion yet he
passed the same thing true on a day a day basis with every other human being that you're dealing with yehowa they're going through you don't know what triumphs and tragedies
evader life you don't know what just happened to them this morning so the the recommended course of action as you can you give some one a little bit of slack with you dealt in em
fool ye ye reseen that that sign felt when he goes goes to talk to the hero on for you accidit pretty much this but just on sanfield say goes to talk to this grey got into to a
girl she's hot or whatever he goes up turned he's a hey hey hello use me and her back is kind of turned you know he's like a fuse me hello hello like giddy any sort o yer room mad
that you can not listening to him finally he walked like more close to her and she kind of cart eturn around he's like all so now you had tention what are you deaf and she's like
bingeing to him oh she she's nietfong a chill on the end find out about people first free certain the charities the regimental sergeant major is it wounded in both legs never
dressing and down to know a mean as the light at a good thing he put that in this lovely owestry hum he from the put this in his book the man he and that other part where there
were all what like tired and stuff right or their defeated essentially they were acoma where they were basically burrowing men yet in an they and they got up and they just took
started charging getting out de faltroeet put default egress of part that's like oh like in a way there's big centipedes fin veramente leave all nonotte bigger than like senorita
i've seen here okay but give me a figure like six inches twelve like its sicilie a normal big senates and but soit bigger anyway very imitombo you you know that they're they're
little bucks the little round ever you to step on it but like when you start messing with it and it starts to get not to superintendent all but they can change the audi your room
you got chased out of your room my annealing like even like a like a wash or one like it these little things that a way i allenerly just get nuts in then and like you want to mess
with it you know dot sort lay lay oover my house is a while a girl coupleof years ago and ah there was a lizard in my house like about a dear the thought a nine inch lizard and so
my son and lay foregone to try and catch this lizard and and they're being weak segerat gear like all you know then like a while you wait no not in get box on it and all ye so i
come in mister toff guy till i come in reached i go just grab that thing you will see reached down i greeted down the grab the thing to thing turns its head and bit the selenite i
screamed like the jim carry like a sea and i fit my end it was it was absolutely hilarious because i one from being a big tough guy to screaming um ah and having a lizard it on to
my finger jeloo otherway at missing to blood yet all my tom so he lets dealeress is but it didn't work out the tithe lizard was more defaulters ive than i will yet see and then
that is funny that's a funny sorry for a couple of reasons i might opinion but it that is the exact same concept though you know where if you would like olystone book just kept
your head you smash that lizard that i alifia catch it alive i wasn't trying to kill it yes but still i should have been more gradient didn't even hurt right i just shocked me ye
yes i i isastrea frae wasn't ready for them let the nation of the tenacity license have allowed those special neget hot the i mean i assuming it's the same time there these but he
is a thing growing up on quite the these things they call him we call him camelion but they're like a gol andoy and m o l e that's easement spell it that they turn green or brown
or whatever and then get they get pretty big and their super aggressive like when you grab him oh that's a the fit lettred thing comes out of the neck and they start biting you
and you get him to lithend you hold him after a while they start to come down and i think they distort to get sick and stuff on an eaten but they came down so you can do the thing
where basically it can be if you have a lizard you colitis an he'll go like the hill turn to bite you oh so what you do is when he comes out of it what raheny gravier in to kill
you but when he came down after it and all three four minutes you do that in his kill keep kindo like her they were less less and at last and last he'll always do that though
it'll ejus be a lot less aggressive and then if you put your finger in viviby and he won't let go so you got a kind of drag your finger out in yet it it'll in cause blood whatever
it but what we do is in yinaigre that as we do that and we've put it on put the lizard honor ears so the lizard be a nearing an airing yet biting your isis have to liza ann down
but anyway the point there being fun claylike you yet in all ye when you grow up with that stuff like those lizards are not scary even if they are aggressive and some of them they
get pretty like big in valyin their like danastead some power to it this little lizard you know and but even here when it got i grabble they're like no i wouldn't scream like you
ye isinene it luthanians awful it was awful well i am being prepared i guess when we're talking to all undress at watch you get de alterative with let inganno know if they want to
support this pot cast may be how they could do it all sipsoo jules tremazan experience with lizard with lizard to ilyin than him screaming ho ho the late in whom it was late in my
son yet did did they lose respect for you that he loved aniela as actually funny because life always a talks about you know me being calm as at la asked oar we we were driving on
time we almost got to care he was driving actually and i'll have him tell a story but we hit mud and we hit wear out in the desert we going to sixty five miles an hour on a back
road back by all these farms and it was two o'clock in the morning three o'clock in the morning something like that and normally these roads are completely rather in the desert
and were hauling and lay striving i think striving as truck dayward struck were hauling and all of a sudden out of nowhere we see was hit a big eighteen wheeler on the side of the
road on the opposite side robertina road there and as were hauling all of a sudden we hit a a water letting water probably a couple inches deep of water and mud because it's it
what happened somewhere irrigation from all this farm land had broken and there was this flood and so we hit this thing and were immediately hydroplane lay is from texas lay his
room taxes so he did not use to driving in the so i grew a driving the snow in doing launette with it evens like a rally driver up there the pufesso late he is not really used to
this and he starts to over steer the corn which is really really bad there and you onsetting there and work on sittifikits towsey reallity through his act we we ought i wivandeer
definitely on that sir and i'm sitting there in the passenger seat and i say oh do overstar non noverit no breaks no breaks are it your good cause i let the other thing as take
you can make a few jam on the brakes stereolepis you're going to slide you gonna let antral so now don't ever sir dover no breaks no breaks all right you're good also that was not
my reaction when i got down the full might eleazer ah it is alerting the ill good but payment you know if you want to support this but gassalasca about that possible so it self
one good way and support this is though wolf can't what its origin right organ the grand origin man dot come that's website they've got a lot of costume one of the cool items
actually these bunch are geese for digestae ber back on um kadaiyir started this thing that's that would be the main question about you get what kind of you and i've been up
ortheris these and i i give em the the three they taught actually there was there's four of them and it was shortly after where you recommended this these origin once nan then
when i went there i was like oh shoot this kind of expensive out an you know but then do i just looked at the one thou like is like the first one i saw them but there are many
varying prices of geese and they are all good by the way i notice because i have some noteless if you're still wending what can i get to get origin ye hundred per cent yea option
you know for his pricing and stuff like that if you want the tea lacson verses the more basic one but they're all dealt and here's a thing about em they're all made in america and
not in the sense where there is kind sembled in america but so the otamatea a sore somewhere else for materials are source which come source and get the raw atheromatous
trampleasure onawandah america mantamer boom brought over to maine assembled slominton walloon yet a set of herryet woven on a loom bomb into this outstanding material moisture
were you call it waking we am right that's when it it kind of like help ye with noster ef i didn't know all this by the lamb like being educated on it and his lot in a by the way
on and i anti my corbel at a big deal in what for me not come at three you get school stuff there's the other stuff too like rash guards and even like clothes regular clothes
athletic war still one all made amer in america boom also for some legitimate fitness gear on it dot com flashed jack i just got the unintimate centevilles and i said that before
my cadigan w what is yours what is your heaviest ketill ones forty to room right with idiot dancing mines ninety fritillaries avenione oratiello she was i guess you know it's
clear what i got a timeball get another one but umsatteln to about it by a morgan on mortiferous where talk about candleberries strong i told him that yesterday he had not not
just good at it's kind of a insult injies right talouel really strong intransigentes yes but i made it perfectly clear yesterday i was like a hay you feel you gits o strong i
dotted it's not i'm not trying to say you feel strong like hay you're of meat your immediate right but you feel strong in a positive way because the esther's the deal if it was
just you being strong than five years ago when i started chained the one that oh you feel strong i didn't say it then cause enfeel strong and feel strong now that you've uses
getting ye did her better and and your getting more skill wollaston with a different expression or maybe just a modifiers sion because some people ye like till people tell me i'm
strong whatever and after awhile i was a wee i felt the same thing that you really want i may told you like your strong i thought it was kind of a may be so consciously is i
thought i was kind o stablished that okay look you're a really good educate you know noysed of a given so if i were to tell you your salicineae i like a leaf yet was i like oh yes
i was liker like rollickers like noithe ossian now now i know that i know your tennis out standard i tell it on servia little bit not in the angry wearing it like the bit but
yanuncai so her had a rise i was an a a little bit more sarcastic about it i see alcaic you know i i i came prishtina ye i'm glad i'm so strong yet and i can just you know what i
say you and able say it and i know people don't mean it i know they don't mean that you know what what how we take it kind like your strong yet if you're at your physical strength
your deduction the well we take it and now and they're just throwing it in like halitosis how i did with you is kinelike look your better than you get then me you you beat me up
all the time but in the dim time your pretty shanitha probably what we were saying most of the time but so when people be like dang your strong you are great in you when they say
a song i say ye lift a lot a weight dear silly kind of give them the embracing kind of like you might wait lifting basically beat your jugend a thing on an inordinate or kind of
in burattini a joke really oh no less so yes morgan he should run jugatinus there is technicist at manistee is getting better and i and it reveals is einoeder the strength in the
proper way yes good job morgan but we're talking about kennebunkport both of hard so i start defilin good cause i got this nighty pon one and i'll like i lifted it up and you know
king in of this the one hand boom clean put it clean press is there thirnagoas if he use you legs to snap it up their little bet that it is a clean and jerk okay even one as if
you just do if you don't use any ways you just be howard up smoothly that's pressed agathe and of clean and jerk i turnstile and a body o water so my met conside when i got the
whereon to a like sixty two pounds i do to it a time full bowl okay easy and you do wraps you not to think so i got the the drill one seven two pounds and i could do now on just
as you get strong and now so get the ninety pound on i'm like how on on to you so i do not decent to at one time is easier cause the balance right now is not easier just i mane
using more energy for sure but it is hers like doing the ballet in only bodies okay well so one is easier doing one on his first arrival at good well got you so i got one big foot
that's ninety pounds and i lifted that up as inman if not attached for a soul i was like maybe two three days later i was like wool i got a try that's the one you know i got the
sunny two pounds when i can do that i don't well punch times actually but so i just warmed up a bunch and just first time i did it like a straight up failed i couldn't do it and
i'll like ardini know how it feels now and all this stuff and then when i could do it bombthrowing yeats good solid so we all know that now i say he got in unreliant just inatulla
which is actually what makes kettle bells kind of fun to do is because it does require a legitimate technique he like you can't day like its heart it's it's like a dumbbell or a
bar bell or my shewalter doing barbel snatches it takes you hellhound that's really despectui you go laguaan dumb cause some straight up balanced i mean they're not they're not
like a rat but they have a handle both sides of the handle equal man await you know boom you just have to balance your body and then after get that balance down this pot easy far
bellies and less cause you won't have two sides got to be balanced is just one long thing then to such a lettable then you go machine you don't even need balance you just need the
strength to push so it's that spectrum of the cattle bells way on the satisfaction where i kind o there's the game within the game you know that's it makes some fun i think if he
progress in both areas technique and strength anyway i leave it at that i ve want the cold cattle bells on it dot com flash jack or jump ropes datames the way i do come battle
masses or just maces as infecere those worn in the clubs hedonism cool work out through that and they do like your for arms get i i i didn't look into like what exactly you know
they're gonna improve but i know corseting and all this stuff but there's all these little things improved to i'll send in stuff also good way to support if you're going to get
this book men and how do you how do you pronounce literary art in him more aramiary men aren't in jeffrey powel path how i would wonderways i otologist any one that's from holland
he as and pronounces it a different way i looked at it on you to be an obese it and here was like they say oh how to pronounce or am and there's fourteen different ways and eidol
the dice in pigeon that sounded easiest for me to say so sorry a insanorum am no i'll git em but if you want to get that book or any other a book that jocrisse just go to duclos
dot com on the top man you there quick on books from episodes all the books are listed there by episode one with the few other things but mainly just books from the roby episode
to quick through their bondacani but get those books there that's a good way to support the samson click through or if he doing the other shop in your getting it tripod or the
camera or duty or whatever picktooth their boonooog way to support great wits apart also little adiciones you know how we had the whetstone podcast too on donacona's what is long
sir i think i went into it i was like when i was like tasting like what website provider whatever else i come this once the wedding find attached it is a long story and then so we
ended up getting ducatoon and their both kind of there but joodges to his kind of the the the primary one's not the primary one in more cocopas it's jockies up coff occleve sand
now was actually a trooper that straight up ganajoharie at one looking out for her as he in the not a big deal some new york go dud yeh that's a huge deal because um bulk do you
have your own name ye okay so people will be like all this guylon off he'll he'll do now by the don mannae either hold on to it or immediately go to unblithe want to buy this for
me i be yeah they cold it off did in fact i think there might be like a legal like defense against it like a fromaget your name or your your kids name in your kind of a public
viritim not sure but yet that's what people do men ill or they'll buy unchains at sound cool no he'll be like you you can buy this from me connoting said super was when they do
with like euro ena when they know like dan work come you or you that for long time they unowhat they paid for eventually paid for you scot com but for a long time they were like
us dot tindall the orelay had to step up i bet that i bet some made a lot among a saloniste letters may i like if you get the last letter let more preston less but yet jackmorass
dot com that's the main website now if you were going to jackpots to dot com it's it's not that any more does our sandvaet it does bed but well willenslee aim doing the thing i
will of anywhere you will eventually yet red mueran into that that's why god who have been any meal and rightly so thanks for that oh so unless factor the point if you want
support it by giving these looks go through the website and click through there is the good way to support spicion your action small huge hats on one also subscribed to the poet i
tone if you have already stitcher if you don't use i alas i then oglebay any anywhere they fell where they provide a poast bower on there so subscribe as a good way also you too
yes i put some exerts on their more excerpts and i continued to do so sharable extort try to keep a under four minutes that's cool right for dear my berlie longer i every once in
a while you get it like a good like ten minute one the letter thing but they're more ship better than to use long as you know sting bout with the videos that you you want to get
compression three hides form in at tops yea and it depends on the deistic the maybe like make him shorter uh yeah yeah i mean if it's appropriate because sometimes you don't want
it sometimes it's just a you saying like a whole thing an it's like okay that solid and sometimes it you and then my rebuttal to kind a kind of bolster the point your point cause
you'll clarify it because i you know and it's all it's it makes sense so sometimes if you ad it certain things out may be the messages and there sure much as rogers stoeten not
allen but most aftertones all look into it all at an idle if a viol and he goes along with like people typical attention span should be what like about a minute in the hall i obey
attention for in scientest renaioli a porteuse we did this is a porcupine to go over this so king come to the best un conclusion on how to conduct ourselves in regard to you to
exert and other things none the less subscribe the duchanel it's good we're going to provide value how budet no all if you're into the video virgin could some people are some
people are into more the video version of the potater you know bones subscribe if you have an already you two also jocolate the storm called jocasta jocularly amedid already know
em on there we atomotor shirts mainly some rash guards i just made an order for hooever heavier fall is coming a winfield the fire followeth day here in fall yes so we got some
not that we're doing a whole seasonal time i'm to saying it's fall now getting cool eating cooler check at the wadies on their getsinger's on their gets some rash garden there i
think on t do warrior kid rash gard umi have one teina's not in production at ye and it's not even a change in a little bit some coloring stuff and whenever but it is pretty cool
good good little breres onse um also have on the sand malecasta i'm nothing get something i'm saying go on the track it out if you want to support and you want to get something i
think something is cool for yourself or for your you know friend why girlfriend neighbor whoever in get something good way to sport actually great way to support also
psychological warfare o what's yooi warfare as if you don't know it's an album with jacatra so basically if you are on your campaign against sweetness and you have a moment a
weakness this is like a little spot so basically you put on these audio tracks to let you know he pragmatically don't skip this work out to day hat don't slip on this diet to day
hey your procrastination isn't working in here's wife but as jocatus it's kind of like more effective way mortice under sent successerat in my experience a hundred per cent vessel
dip a also but jackie if you want it you can get down on amazon the case got animate feel great also on origin man dot com you can get jocoser crowl that will make you feel good
and on top of that you can get jocko joint warfare which is awesome what's in that by the way he is groseman contro al got a man the man but then we put some addition or things in
there um the man it's it's been rocking is it it's a it's it's awesome you've got books or i've got some books if you want to read him one is called way the warrior kid one is
called extreme ownership the warrior kid book is for kids extremeness is repeopled ershi positions are people that want to be muteshin there is also a new book coming out called
discolored field manual it actually comes out october seventeenth and at one point many months ago after her six seventeenth seemed like it was a long ways away but it's not me
more the it's here sir you can order that one it is unlike any book that you have ever seen or read also the what's interesting about this book as people keep asked me if i
gonneau does not in an audible instead of being on audible it is going to be a lie to to tend to be on amazon that m p three in a gunnoogoo play it's going to be where you can
find em p three tracks there is a reason for this if you do it through audible if you get this one big long book and it's and what the book is the way to book is written is
written to be junked up and your gano wanta take parts of it and play it at certain times more like you i do with the psychological war for al so people were asking for more
psychological warfare that's we're doing just going to go free him feel manniston to be available as an album that you can buy and then you can do what you want with the tracy can
make him your lormerin you can listen to him out of order in any order you can put them in a mixed you can do a lot more stuff with them that's why we're doing it as an album with
tracks instead of as an audible book so you know what we might you know people might have a little challenge finding it or realizing to nen they go on the amazon or the going to
barns and noble they won't see that it's available now be looking for the audible and you won't be able to find it i'm sorry i will the inaudible i think that's where they won't
faforite and audible platform rayglo be but it'll be on em than to the it'll be on amazon but you i don't think it'll be lent to in south same thing ere you go oh here is i do
hidehart to find kindlike a tart of ind an i turnaround psychological warfare but the question is do you want to do or did i want to do something right or just do something easy
ye that's to cost few men you'll like any field man you'll like when you want to go refer to it you'd want to be searching her out for a donation now tongatona what is that one
part you know that yields with this and old men just go to the young than you are to retrace in either and so i like i said if we could done the easy thing and and whatever you
know how everyone just began to click on it real easy i'm a poll gibet if you want the right way then that's what i had to do so that's that book and then as halifan that's the
leadership consulting company that i have with lay fain but j de now dave bert if you want to have us common work with your business contact in foe at echelon shunt dot com and if
you have any questions or if you have any answers or if you just want to continue this conversation you can find us on the interests on twitter ones to graham and on the face
bockhorst aethers and i m at jackall finely thanks to every one out there for making this pot gasp possible to those of you in the military especially those right now on the ford
line of our own troops facing evil every day thank you for providing this freedom that we enjoy and to the first respondes in law enforcement and fire and masting you for taking
care of us while we are here at home and the rest of you that are out there dear working and building and producing and creating and leading he leading keep stepping up keep
taking on challenges and keep striving to do more and to be more keep picking up the pace and keep pushing harder and no matter what the odds or what the probabilities keep
getting after it so until next time this is echo and jocko how
