this is jacopo cast number ninety five but i charles and me jackwell bideing echo good evening the president of the united states of america authorized by active congress july
ninth nineteen eighteen takes pleasure in presenting the distinguished service cross to second who tenant air corps james c conkle united states army air forces for extraordinary
heroism in connection with military operations against an armed enemy while serving as the pilot of a petit eight fighter airplane in the four hundred first fighter squadron three
hundred seventieth fighter group ninth air force in aerial combat against enemy forces on sixteen september nineteen forty four during an air mission over agen germany on this day
while flying as rear man in a squadron on an armed reconditeness mission lieutenant conkle noticed that his squadron was about to be surprised by a vastly superior force of enemy
aircraft on able to summon his leader on the radio he alone on hesitatingly pulled away from his formation and vigor attacked the enemy immediately destroying one of his air craft
in doing so lieutenant conkle placed himself in a position to be attacked from rear and above when this attack materialized many hits were registered on his air craft which caught
fire burning his face neck and hands the spite his burning plain and the gun fire from enemy plains lieutenant conk continued his attack against the vastly superior enemy force
and succeeded in destroying a second enemy air craft breaking off combat only when forced to perish you to safety when his left fuel tank exploded second lieutenant conkle
unquestionable valour in aerial combat is in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and reflect grape credit upon himself the night there force and united states
army air forces so that is a military citation for a distinguished service cross and this pilot also flew mission just after de day including armed consent flights and attacks on
german trains and the ices and air fields and also this pilot flew close air support missions to help push germany out of france and drive allied troops towards victory and it is
an absolute honor to have this pilot this hero on the pot cast with us to day mister jim conkle sir said you very much for joining us is great have you on more than brand you know
if that wasn't good enough i also honoured to welcome back to the podcast jim comes friend fellow pilot another american hero captain charley plum for fantailed shot down on his
seventy fifth mission in vietnam war and spent six years as a prisoner of war in vietnam captain charley plum sir welcome back to the shell thank you jack i'll nice to be back and
for those even haven't listened to you captain plum the first time you came on on the poncas to stop now go to pakanae seventy six it because that is a that is a whole incredible
story of of this time in captivity its detailed in in the book that captain flambro which is called in no hero but go back and lest that and then you can return and you can listen
to this pot cast but there was interesting cause when we got done with that first bocas and i was taking captain plum to the to the train station which is which is odd in its own
right to have the pilot to writing a train i unnoteworthy attentive the captain on a train but it an he said he you know i thought this body you you you might want to talk to him
and he said you know he is a world war two pilot i find her pilot and you know he's a bee be great god to talk to it of course i said ah yah absolutely so it took us a little bit
of time but here we are and this is also the first time we've had more than one guest at one time on the poast and sitting amongst you to my planes is sit back and listen to you
to talk about whatever you want to thoinatai her some of the stories and a anault ngly the pacas that just came out last week was about a book called the men at arnhem which
detailed the the british participation in the inoperation market garden which started on september seventeenth nineteen forty four and as i was reading your safe citation if you
noticed that was september sixteenth nineteen forty four that you are that you are shot down and that that right at the beginning a right break before that that operation took
place after true the course i missed the ah of i heard jehover entrusting stories later on um a iras picked up in a haharacoa oh that by the first rooper frateretto vision thick
me now they saw my shoe with him out and got me and umthank goodness it was a lovely anyone behind so they didn't leave me behind and i thanked them for holy but um ah through the
avarabet to ah a ah a general hospital and in a hospital train to paris and the train was completely full of a casually from arnim operation so oh i wasn't too good a shape at
that time to listen to the stories with later on in aspilin paris i heard some rioters about what went on up there and it being a niaro piled a oh we were working with the ground
troops in we ruoprecht ed what there are their problems were in the the difficulties that they had and we tried their helter way that we could so umtetwas sea there was a very
trying time so i guess it before we get into all that at any greater depth how did you end up as a pilot what you know how i how did you end up there in terms of where to grow up
and negro up here in in california no osborn in pennsylvania new kensington pennsylvania my father rose was in the steel business and am his nineteen thirty two a my dad to pass
away from injuries to his received in the first world war and so we at that time he had retired from his business at even though he was on in thirty six years old at that time but
ah we were coming to california and umbayalla and had closed the house and the whole works some nine years old and am he went to the hospital in new york and stand and passed away
and my mother am who a didn't even drive in automobile at that time i remember her as to me he retorted to california and i said yes and she took some driving lessons and borosay
and we came to california on russety six when they were building a easy mother prayed to her way she fell a for i had had a forinara she wasn't the only one that was rayonette to
even at nine i can still remember her of she was driving and then the moth of texas in a out portions of my mother was a very cracious woman no doubt so i am my dad had been very
interested in aviation and i picked that up and back to oh he used to do of a steel castings for a curtis right and numabo new york and we drew up there in every every time we
went on the trip nonsinse at me day years old we don't like battered for a ride some place and so i i picked it up with that time and and pursued and in it you get out to
california that's where you go through high school and let not your house goinbert hill sighs school and of september m nineteen thirty nine as you know the war started we protest
partha of men was all the talk of europe to a possible your war and i decided that this is doing to be my senior year and if there's going to be a war work in to be in at one
weyrother and so i went out and join the california or national guard of the above a squadron there was based in grippart california and ever the i am a bunch of them for where
war one violated sooth full biplanes starkweather ty eight to observation her craft and a open cockpit and some of the later on had he been at a ton of it over and i am i really
ah had been hanging around airports my mother was brigham helpful she would listen before i had a driver's liza she would take me out to the local airports grandson told our comon
it men the whole day sated the out there and sometimes it even get of ten minute ride if anybody had any money to buy gas with what um coming back to the guard i spend a year with
him and it was a very very interesting year that these follows that ah where the pile of tawere all mostly a combat pilots from where warm one and um i set up their nennie all the
stories from that um ah i did you a courtesy idea of resolute a fire pilot am i have friends with lacetani knew about the peter he ate and i decided that i want to fly peterano
one to go to england and am luckily it worked out that way so what do yer did you transfer from that the air national guard into a hat you get a commit did you get a commission
etocles e not to go to college at that time to get a commission of the pilot ah actually of regard was brutalized and we we went on manoeuvres of the chehalis washington and we
were attacking fort um for lois and am the guard we were the attackers and the rear up there for three weeks on the nevers will while we were up there we got notice that of the
the are gard was going to be federalized and drawn into active doing and if i wasn't eighteen years old yet so i had to have commission on where you already a pilot at this all
ooooooooooooo in idepski or plant it was situate on an emotion that all her so ah but no i was in the armament section and the roof so umbilo sergeant white and an argand white
kind of took me under his wing and i i got some pretty nice assignment out of it i learned a lot uh fagot the fly in the back seat and ah i've got on weekends or you know we had
duty once a month in the guard but you could drown on weak and do not work at the airport and a gedex ra pla dean and be the pilots of the guard word if they knew you were
interested they would take you under the waglite a bit of flying time and do and first settin your eyes so i you set into years of i was to seventeen and five tornasti one is
drawn in and am sure but you know this calentem school are not the um academic because i want to do be up of air force pilot had to be twenty one yet have two years at college and
am in nineteen o forty forty one of this is the debrett tight to to ah when were yonderward so i didn't really figure i was going to graduate from college so i want to get in but
the classes it would do me the most good if i could become a ideation cadet and um it it all it all worked out to we um in the interesting thing was to me ah ah in april i took
centime off on school and i went down galliardo a north american aviation and i worked on the first ten feet fifty ones built up and i do stephen to day on the line in fact one of
those of the original person is in the museum of oshkosh so some place within that airplane to some of my work and um ah that was a oh that would even the summer of my ten forty
one a september and i was going back to school and i had become accustomed to all at money a demain it north of merican we we got thirty five cents an hour when i started there
cook thirty five cents an hour wasn't too bad because ah i worked alongside people that had two or three kids and their supporting the whole family on the thirty five cents an
hour ah we had a little uh labor disputed north american than they raised it to fifty cents so we were really rollering but um in september um or wonderfool but i enjoyed that
then come so i went to locked they have a great lordship and um i worked at seventh and save downtown los angeles a lucky there crafted taken over this big warehouse and they were
building the wings and the empennage for the pertain their also building the wings for vile hudson bomber with the gotten this breage contract from from the british and am yet ah
if i was there when the war started axes active i was there of a night that they attack los angeles and the old place is black bow if you remember the famous story of the arran
los angeles a i don't remember that story were clearly haxey i wasn't even closely enbowered was my dad to what happened with attack los angeles well i is out on the new the
probably the most logical story that i ever heard was sidonie tvier los angeles and somebody hits the panic putting on all look the searchlights came on and a he could hear her
ankret in the background probe from fort megario some place like that and the whole walkey plant was black out so we sat there in the dark for about three hours for a day fought
his battle with flood with the unseen enemy and it course made all of the newspapers on it was big story so any way a reward to started as far as the u s was concerned the
december seventh ah right after that they um um they drop the age limit from me twenty one to eighteen for the aviation cadet program may drop the the two year conacal a
requirement to a high school and so am i went down and signed up with the bout three hundred thousand other toestand malaria there is that any people that want to be pilots hole
but he there were too while in fact oh ah i was quite concerned um i am a signed up the ah that would have been in june i waited until september before they had called me down to
downtown los angeles and swarm and is so private as to duration in ascade and a tholoway way will and i went home and waited another for five months before they called to
southered so many people and there was no place to put him they were trying to build san an army or vase with russian duction so are of poor or fortieth on the west coast and um
ever is overwhelmed with the viedaber to to put them as so eventually i got called up an i went through and umlilwane months through roosendaal preflight a run up to to larry
callifornia as propria instead how to tex rank and school in texas mine the abati champion of the u s and so is the festoon school seaside hire the best of ilian pilot and adam
come out and trinitatis correct in fact a tax actually own delapsion te um they appointed most of the primary was um um a private enterprise there were set up by the air force
forth to that training and primary of incriminating and so am i you went through by contabuit hours i freetent and we have the hind as sarcomatous air craft is used mainly on the
east coast we didn't see many of them out california we had temoin ryons and when the west coast am gotho primary he went to basic now were on a military base in the onetime
california and that was one of the largest sum ah airforce basis is a army or coraceis just tuition final you can still see the hangers on everything but final tatler navler
station you can still see all the hangers on from a from our old base well but um grotto basic went down to william bildermann ah that brought me close to the peace ariadne most
epitrites came out of william field the southampton from there we were on a fast track in the work quite wide we run this big fast dracut all of the sun we it ninety days or i
gratify the guns once in the feet thirty eight ah one gun we had four fifties in the twenty mile meter in the nose and they lit a fire one of the fifties all of a sudden ranatra
in going to the coast and were heading for england twelve when you win you said you wanted to put my out he thirty eight and yet you had worked on the piecest one what was the
deciding factor that made you on a fly peterhead a piece on a lefever eight was a high old of tod five marswool was our first a well combattero to peporismenon did very well he
certainement do well at all um but thirty eight was the only high performance airplane we had to keep fifty one at the time that i worked on it was a low aldith deranged and alien
engine and nothing above it loving the twelve thousand feet or your outpour so am now the fifty one was going to be a malo eld of tod british used air craft and that's what they
wanted extremely fast and they used it or row of tactical work and till that is for i want to be an air aerial combats i want to be a finer polo and she on a puncher or points so
i stuck move the thirty eight and score i didn't realize the british were put in the marling in the beaten about that time and we were running up the greatest thereon at her plate
the war but ah yet i guess that's what threw me off his cause now i wish thought of the piece hefty one as being as being in now the best are the air combat ah aircraft on the war
but i didn't realize that it had got ben get there immediately in i had to get there and stages of that that that makes sense to me now the wall did come and stay toulousian that
when they did it the mirlitaine i went to the therfore and the therefore had the greatest fear group in the whole world ah then they uh uh they have access to all the newspapers
how i got all the publication was the greatest their plane the whole world he the thorwaldsen of ten or soldiering from early nineteen forty two and pasific on fast to north
africa and in doing well all the way and no matter what you ask it to do it could do it so am i was still a piece thirty eight the fan i got to england and i had dem great
interest in a combat that hers a fellow by the name scrubbing whose nor are fit and he was one of the greatest deflection of shooting experts in the in combat ages and he was the
hero of malta to the area of excederet est what deflection to plenishing at which is what is that that means the deer when you then when you are coming in on a arica if you're on
his tail you got zertain if he's in a tern a you've got a move the other you're you're in point out in front of that airplane cottage and you got what they call a hundred mills
side oh it was was it up forgotten all i guess we there was about so many inches for sousand feet and and radiated say as you if you're in a satire degree turned you might put one
great iranian and half in front of him in its all i ballawhaine degrees or out late seven radii way out here and in so hates to flexion shooting all just as before we got to
carolside which we never gotten the picardy but the fifty one drops his jaw of side to computed that for you so you'd put them the size of the airplane would be put into the side
by a little slide of tin not adjusted your sight ah in your reflector and so then you put the pepper right on their craft in the sight with two cetacae thee of the leads necessary
to heirs anany way i have studied those angles off didn't you know an hour before you go to sleep after you go to bed you you do in confutations on how many a rai lead from what
position was your going up or going down or sideways or whatever where you want to go but um acetellosa i get to england and am all a sudden overeager how this is to the mother of
forcemeat of to the ground troops and into the all operations is a fairly leaves you come made air force if i with you is that what you said you know and that's just a debt
delineating that these guys are working with the ground troops in your flying low and it dream of aerial combats not so much there is not right in taterations of the glamor forces
got on a must have been all ears though i mean you talked about screwball but but the arapiles and had fought the battle of britain i mean the will you guys getting lessons
learned from them and and er you were they actually directly teaching you guys at all or they talk to us we didn't have any formalisation from them to conversations and usually up
the bar at the old club woolf's club and called in a i got to two good points so old radotage who would fornint battle of breton told me that ah if you have a jury on your tail do
something by one said denman when it is this mentation and the second thing was to keep your eye on his as exhaust because that's her pertendin you're going to get of what wares
trying to do and am i thought there is for two good points and i used him couplets yet it that the violent picene could piatte in many situations in life where it you know what we
see people in their there to bad position in life they need to do something violent to move out of that situation and out of deliberation if in unfold that was no longer the
combat that then went to haseltine resting about watching the exhaust because you see a change in a like a plum come out of the austrians helas cut off and you know what type of
manoeuvres were going to do though women whose triunfo of fast london eng the power of you over run in to me shootin or so but the mother of course is but came along an i we begin
to realize just how much help we were over the grand pores and and it was pretty primitive man of covered a lot of hurry to hear him in the big men boldest time but ah you know we
we had we had no navigation radio oh we can't for channel be l ah that meant to usually we could talk to mons to squadron but the word was don't be a near aquarum don't talk on
the art yet often it nithe had that same ranthorpe and all my selton's antealtarin its stay off the radio and he now you're trying yearduring ground support to the give us oh
quartiano the chart now you go golownin it with selinus all i will so in your eye walling re ground in your looking for ground targets your wide open and your six passing o'clock
position so ah so it onely with multiple people are multiple aircraft so some one had the duty of watching the rear and a yes so we did in fact that i got the duty several times
so what we we did ah we usually blew as a squadron sometimes we fly as secret sleepin they are usually we try to put up at least twelve air craft as a squadron a maxwelle maybe
four flights of course extend and so of two and to answer their question about um um you know being attacked from the rear and so forth in the six o'clock the germans see devolve
the tacit against the the tactical aircraft is which we were and they would they started vectoring ah there fighters in a reprinted and your person diction that was all of a
sudden you have of sormonne crafted you six o'clock and in early august of forty four m one of our sisters a groups pecorain force a lost a half a squadron just he got hit
needlework surprised and um so he thought a bore better that we'd better do something about that sir we start putting of a couple of experienced people instead of putting your
your first tom emission following rear and prepare corner we called it i let him drag a long way we stole put somebody back there that's gonna have a little experience in a way
and and so we we did that i drew one of the first to missionaries enough they can and i spotted him and be called the great and made the break was quite caponera in the break his
year saint haminaea off on the squatter a now some one eats toome with me or we need to face this other issue over here we got a bunch of enemy aircraft coming that's what that's
what calling the breesha break and when you call the brig they whoever spotted the er crap leads the bread because you don't want to lose them as you can't take invidious them you
got to keep your eye fall on them for you're going to lose him and am so you may do you call the bright you make your break in to him from whatever position there coming from the
squadron mendle break with you and so all our craft are now turning into the enemy and he probably um an experienced aracon bat group that was just an old work signor nineport
goes we didn't do much of this and so on when i'm called i called the break i made the break grew hollow sudden by myself and carrie on a going and now with the they didn't hear
me or whatever i i have no idea of so all i had was a couple of avlone line the round circle sudden on a flat wing and jane all the outpointing tomatoes and were doing the
regarding rarety tight turn and and amalia sudden i lost them in the turn and am on looking at my six o'clock and you might have romanising backwards it was been a lot easier but
am i turrentine my gun sight here's a deft bone night oneion top of and the umtali spot of me about the same kiritin i fired a birth that in a mohave sure but he despairs quick
that i had little he just flickered out of my two hitherto wouldn't do that the early was a later winds had trombone would actually could perform that fast rule ride so any um he
got away from me and i was a perfectly wonderful shock positions as shooting down an so that was that our first encounter and the second encounter was the wind were uterogestation
i made to break nobody came with me and i have more than i covenanted you before i get to that one when you were doing close air support for troops in the ground and you had four
radio nets that you could be on would you be talking to the guise on the ground a yes in some man some sometimes you could you'd be under with the control now they the night
therefore we mainly people are by seven we have one group of people one three fifty four than they have been the pioneer group with the merlin power de fifty one but they ended up
in the night therefore but usually they were used with the atterre for thee where of the bombers but um so the the majority in it vierfache was to helbig airport we had a lot of
fibrous up forgotten now how many we actually have but most of them were people are the seventh forty seven was a great aircraft at close of port and um ah we have four groups of
peter tight in a meeting so most of the close report work was done by the people the seventh in a real max effort we were used to come close up portent aleippo the seven was very
some short range a thirty eight we had a lot of range we could carry em a larger bomb blow then either the forty seven in the fifty one actually of curtice to two thousand pound
bombs as four thousand pounds in that dropping the seventeen country of wheat so um ah we could always get the usually we could find some thousand pounds but nor may we carry to
five hundred oh do like the thousand because of the bigger the bang is the less chance you have to go back and do it in heawen you went back to do it in their way efore ye a a
help until that point i wish can your primary mission and was going in and hitting brawa stations or fight munition factories armed recogitating of moved and of a good finding you
move you try to shoot the ends let hence in later alienation wise i do any anything you could get um we ah resides no problem finding targets and different from the atterworthy
were over the target area in a relatively short time so if they were shooting at you most of the time how long did you how long did you arrive in england before de day actually
happened on a distast time before de ta and i fregattencapitaen did rive an england and am had you foe missions before de day hearted no so your first missions were action of the
atwater and the thirty eighth in arecas they were so easy to recognize in the air oh we were assigned the channel ah we we protopope for the channel all the shipping in everything
between england and the bechaan ah it be at that time of the same very apparent that the reason we had been rushed into to training into england lianaed how heavy losses ah we
expected to live walkerites during the embasement in her his ibere that there were distant and i think they had two swords over the beached on dead and oh we anticipated that
there would be a large effort against the machanne with all a shoving of inoculable walk across the channel with a number of ships at the were there uh mitravinda target the
wafted in joe so ah most of the boy a like my group the um media mission for pretty born with when you were when dede was about to go i mean it's every single person you guys must
have absolutely known that what you were about to do was that was you know going to be the one of the most attic undertakings of the modern history oh you it was a hundred per
cent you guys all knew that and it will ere little by road manganja repiqued and you know it's funny he coming back through a sooften for her to day about our country a inanity
forty forty one i revelatory i was up into ailesworth and we were flying up those oleosity eight we had two brand new air plants from north american o forty seven to helouan for
far greater craft not worth a dam a combat but oh we ah we knew that we were again working with the ah witheroudt ups and we would fill a little paper sack with oats quite paith
flower not was our bombing we attack of much bridge head threw twelve out and be sole sacks full of a flower and the few drake towel of paper over a bridge on to a squalid river
the offertory would use it any more so they had their delecresse river some other way and a mortal of cost by force served as a mortar and am tablon horses would they got lost we
had to go look for him ah now that's a nineteen forty in june forty four as far as you could see is american made a quipment in everything not only what we were caring but we
supplied the british in every one else in this magnificent effort by this magnificent country and nip you dists unbelievable when you find back to be just before the day as i say
every every little road was jam was stored equipment ten emagination of the island didn't sink but ugo i actually outerest potest i was talking about the fact that many of
american or or at least as much of americans victories i manicatis after be attributed to our ability to produce make things in and america's incredible ability to like you said
build such incredible equipment in such a short amount of time it's it's manticore was then was swithering isolation henry ford was the nice taste i understand and he turns round
and build the bonner plan to turn it out six seven eight ten be twenty fours of day yea yea so o this fantastic effort but we all stood together in nesta yeah when wind um i
always read that for de day they they wanted troops not all but they were looking for that they brought a lot of trees that didn't have any combat experience and give five per
cent of the people that if the beaches have experience you know it's funny i got in trouble in paris so a few years it antiologist oyerheated by about so we were in dinner and
paris and did a celebration and um i make mistake i stood up and said to the people in the room that the ground four the infantry um all you people that landed on de day lead de
day is your day the mother port is day the missions we rooney dave were what we been doin foot two years hoebinger and it was there was no better no worse for when you stoppin
think that those kids that hit that beach no experience of offices no experience in combat and so in my opinion and all stand by the my head a few people at the dinner who
objected to what i said but dey was the guise hip to beach we um we supported them but we didn't do much more than what we have been doing the after day um how you can talk about
the a therefore and the heavy bombers in the fact that there are their loss is where everett einlass is worldward so we we've been hurt but a day ah if the london those youngsters
at what was the because these disguises were so you know where i experienced when you were out at a pal but in england talking to these army guys that were getting ready to go in
or were they just a hundred per cent fired up to go hither that elder if i can imagine myself when i was eighteen or nineteen years old i first was in the military if you would a
told me i was going to do a giant and fives landing an epic in the landing there would have been just nothing but an absolute motivation and excitement from me cantoni was young
and stupid and a demon better in a family are all young yet i guess i call it some point young and stupid goes a long way as it is i will i do tell you little sorosis em i was in
tempiest we've fought we were going to fly across to england out of we wiped our transportation for they were a group of about eighteen pilots and i think we are were set to fly
and all of a sudden they gave us on all the equipment and um ah leggings and backpack and helmet and alice stop it then in a stuff makes pilots in nervous headlong made of nervous
made them fools dicono boy knew how to use so and i know i got the leggings on and i know they were for more war one they gave me this back pack and and all ebisode worn
everything and they didn't tell us how a pack at night when out behind the baratanes close life back there an i got some clothes line and i tied this dam pack up we closed in and
um they damenthor and i never tried it on it so that not that evening get no dined and we start marching down tom tom to the gates of the tempter melodean trucks and while getting
on the queen elizabeth and you had to go down a pear venonian of stairs to get to a endevoreth ship and i had a people bag before of my closed everything in the hall of battleston
there i packed very carefully and i had a fortitudo and portable radios in those days were all like thirty six in long and the foliage so i'm carrying the thing and they name me
this them helmet for they didn't give me the interior of it and to the stand without the inside of it every time i took a step that was comin down his who on the nose and then
bouncing a laced we go up the stairs and some place along the line i set that bag down too long and now i got scotch overenthusiastic back and we we come to where their checking
his in and there's a full colonel army colonel to havana is my god were going osertasen i so there you go we got people that don't know how to wear the helmet pack at our vagescoe
overthwart ah so but we your when you're talking guys there there there ready to go and tell gateman's nadin they just don't you know they don't know they don't understand what
they're getting into yet and and again may be to the credit of the planers they decided it's better to have a bunch of guys that aren't really a hundred per cent sure of what to
expect and it is to have a bunch of people that know what they're getting into a know how hard this is going to be well aubrietia ted the so toporoff for gimander watch me very
carefully a waitin your baronetage go down the otoscopes before we were going to take off for england and is quite a party going in and he was a little spirit fling and if you the
world war two barracks gildings what the club was there they had a masoning on the second floor and in its open in the center and all these damp pools in the airborne corrupt on
the second poor yelling anamain jumping off and it is want she broke his life as an so i heard about drives break in their leg and then going on to combatant story as from my
french holostomata that what about so or other anomalies so many stories to tell you i was on my way to combat on their craft caraciollo stopped in her wife or our last who
ronduit and the fontanus a what not when i had rented a little lame a motor scooter and like little vest bonehead at after to work out when i was going to show i'm going around
town hotel and i look back and when i look up forward i am a bore sighted on eighteen wheeler yet so i am so so i laid that the motiers sighed and slid underneath the axle of this
truck and pin my ah right ankle between the the bramantesque the track well and so i i i i i came out and dusted myself off on thinking all a that i try to walk in on the walking
by long so i go up to the lowest side house and knock on the door then say ah you know i i guess i need a ride to the hospital whatever the trip or position with a white and tom
and i act on there looks at me an i takes an extra on my leg and you know it was really funny when you when you see an ex ray of a broken party your body you know you you you're
in disbelief you know you you're like wit talents happen and now you and the nile and the guy said the aery port too uh uh wing a broad woofer three iteration broad three said
this all the other idiots that wrote the flag at i lodestones in a wife and sure enough all these notaries in this military hospital i had broken your leg on motor scooters and so
i said i can't do that i i'm a fighter pilot you know i just to help start the top guy school i gotta i gotta get out o here i got to go win the war you know and and it on their
of get this doctor his name is gentlenoan on tod son take my advice and i'm he you can get into war and six months or so after your leg heals and so we isaian do that i got to go
back to the shapes you said you can't ride around on a ship of the broken leg i said not in a crikery we've got hospital as an next ray machine in all this good stoytering
surgeons and all this stuff ah no i can't let you do that you know roreale other characters that brother legs now in all can't do that and so i find i am arguing with his doctor
who outrank me my about three ranks and the ah i said to what let me call the ship i i'll let you talk to our flight surgeon and he can the sure you that i'll be okay by going
back to the ship because i do go to the war i felt it as i call the ship well of course he fights are get out getting drunk too you know the eyes he went there and in fact the
only one in sick bay on that ship was a was a a a a comonlie a third class corman again he didn't what ease to inutilis ring to the guy so that tell tell this doctor that that
you're in charge of the hospital and it is o pay for me to come back so serenus you know he does what it that's what totes so get a cab to get this cast on not from my prison life
waste all went down on my toe and i bite i mean pairk my ankle you know nothing not the rest of my leg but he got his twenty pound cast on and so i got use crutches and i tried to
to gang way you know and with what a question come board and that the the the ode says you preciated and and i have my way into a sick bay i can hear the same their class
carrement sitting there and he don't know what he's doing that and he like to sign me in or anything he says ah you know go to the officer's quiet room that we got one of those
and sick pagan so i crush my way back to this clinton and i i am exhausted i am totally in his legs starting to soil inside the case i'm in pain and so i just flop down in this in
this rack can the quiet room whither next thing i hear is the engines of the ship starting up and were about to leave now mean while my squadron buddies you know leone to leave no
man behind says where's charlie they went back on the beach searching for me for the last place they saw me was disappearing toward diamond head on a vestcote look all over for me
and come back to report to a wall who get i miss ships movement i i yes so i so i wake up and adunino a happy and i go till somebody i'm here nobody has a mare i mean your eetion
he didn't sign me an he didn't know i was assistant squeeze models you know and in an hospital room and it is prose to uh some squeeze on his bone trying to track a nurse or
something in there squeezes grisi finally looked up at the hole from the bottle i was cut in old just squeeze an air to get my cruchot in it is only then i can move i'm a
parliament on the hatch you know and it finally attracted attention of his sailor and the sakhet go up to the ready room and squattered one fourteen then he yetter tell him up
there that i'm down here well wasn't probably two minutes later as a commanding officer stand in the doorway all right that he is none hatshepset violent i said to nagotten he
said he said first voiced what they telling you when are you going to be rated fly again i said six weeks at my well i you know weeks months i kind of got that confused and he
said you're going home oh i'm gonna get replace in poe you oh no please please please let me stay against with the squadron yet i got to be with the troops you know a place and so
now you're going on i'll please me as it on a cat as garriway if i enenda pilot from the squadron to run the the maintenance on the ahcuitok filliping you know a pilot stand
behind it for battle emejutly know i'll take care or runlets and for you i can do that i crucians he said okay so he let me on helen me off an i unapelike as well the rest of the
quadrangulatoe first line period oh they went helter and i'm cracked in my way around the filipino iwith a you know i added i had probably a six eight chief and the added a
mechanic in a rocking airplanes well and so they would send these airplanes back to me but i didn't have any way to test them ah but the the army a trip or hospital had not taken
my wings as it they they not given me at a downshire told me i couldn't fly why you know igsolted to doctor there had to suicide put on a walking cast occasional cast and so ah i
can ouilli a test these airplanes i can do this so the problem was first of all i couldn't get into the airplane because my cast was too big to go into to the total and so i have
a moycullen into the earth my second problem was i couldn't use my right foot the tito push the right rudder and and this is a this is kind of a nose well staring an airplane the
four regatta be able to push the rudder to steer so i would i groanest is aroplane and i come back and land had a acuit and if pelopians and instead of making a dedhesa you your
cleared right hand turn couldn't make a right in turn i made three left hand teremtette so the footnotes quaterin i came back and and i got back with them got my little cast off
when i started flying missions but you until the day i was shot down i was still limping on that ankle and i was really afraid with a diet in the prison camp beat was never going
to heal but ah you know as as as luck in and fate would have it that it healed up fine and so in ooboe's my story of coverage breaking my leneway to combat ouaye thanks were
bringing it up caretto don't watch what do we're talking about now we're talking about getting shot down to know you're in enough in a prison camp let's you you were about to get
to it to the to the engagement or you actually did get shot down you want to talk though at one a a little bit further jim and just give us some details on that or sure to some of
the details umano original but uh uh back to the ahuvarie this pot them coming in again and this time there were two different jaggles that i could see in the gaggles a word that
we use for the germans because they didn't fly a riddle tight formation they kind of they were dissertates an intentional yes it must have been because sewerage polotaswarf waiter
but um i would guess at inspecially in germans are generally orderly people so you think they'd want to fly tight formations but i i guess if you think about it for a from like
then from a basic camoflage perspective when you see things in a pattern it stands out more some maybe they did that to break up their paternal little bit well i would usumcasane
very effective and um we now some of these boys knew we run into or he had been avoor a long time but as i saw them coming in and i reported to the atacavi picked the one closest
and broke into it made the call that i was making the break and broke in just as i broke somebody call ashad at me and i got it back in the after part of the fuselage i i follow
her a little fire going in the sure i did but am as i made my first pass through the milieu and if you could get the peter knows on a target those pore fifties and that twenty
mometer devastated and forneron a fifty cow which you have is usually karapoona round for gun and a hundred and thirty rounds of o oh o twentymile motor a and we arranged
aromatise that you we we want to for all the same time we didn't carry any trace that we put five traces in and about twenty five rounds remaining so that unearthed to have some
to go home on a rag start in serving your ammunition and so draoitheac shot a apartheid know what to result were because all of a sudden unintellectual a literal fire storm inside
your cabin inside your cockpit o no or jovelike the plants outside torarete were a lot of targets and a pearly i went through them oh really at this late day an then my story of
how much i really remember about this ah i heard stories later which i get you but ah ah it seemed like it went on for ever and finally a montal of one night ye saw as i i saw
some new as an baldriane night is but i ought saw a couple one on mine some place in my preparation so there are the rather our craft and ball go there all the apparently there
all with me i didn't know it at the time but um ah we made a number of number of passes i was very concerned about the moliebatur you holder buttoned down you you're going to be
out in about tonty seconds so as very concerned billius all my ammunition so i trying to fire very short bursts and um we go round and round and were dunganon down and and ah ah a
colon the tail of the one lighting again am right up on top of him antevertit your gun sight you could also see your two top fifties ah and it looked like i had those two fifties
right around the rudder post to his one ninety and out of the corner of my eye i see these flashes otomy wing tip and their comitting to polani gettin closer and close their
misses no aonian he hit me right in in by them the left engine and um we had narcisco the came in through believing edge of the wing and into the cockpit by our left me which was
our only cold air into the pierian again i see this deprivation i'm concentrating on the game from em me ah i see this arbitarily a boatward and so this is not good columbian of
my next memory is a man fallen through a cloud i don't remember at our mergency leaves with a bovis peter tight had actually had windows and you crack em up on both sides and that
the only way you could get him down in the atelier lease and that then kanemon and so we have a top hatch which was or escapeth which is about this wide and a ha backpack he on
and all equipment and i am oh i don't know i don't remember her releasing anything a point of the safety ballinahone harnesses of but this is unlike you know charley year you know
the modern rigs were folly ejectionae e this is all stuff i mean in a modern terekof you pull he ejection and i and your getting shot out of the air craft all ottomatic there it
all its all you do ye lee didn't have to think about anything they were smart as as he guys were you a soul this is all stuff you manuel had to do on buckle yourself get an open
up the hatch or the window and and get all that done well the the plane is burning and and then you have to get out and that's kind of when you come back into constantio did that
either instinctively or or at some point while the all this may ham was going on a drug i don't rasay i don't remember even reaching up above for the to pull the top patch um ah i
was this outfloating down through a climate clouds for a round five thousand feet because we'd been beyond and down during this time he easo just at one more point on a ejection
sheet a modern ejection so you come out your parachute open on a matically riles so you're years still in a ripe corsiare o right where you're going to have to make this an
terrisses will you say your floating down you're actually falling down at a hundred and twenty miles per hour towards the earth somewhat like a anoenoe out the bottom of a cloud a
man pacing up and i've thought well i'd better turn odai turned over and i can remember to tinctly watching the ground and i tis behind german lines because we were boccanera and
ah i had tiouous in we were ease to walking and i knew where a proximate this bite started and i didn't think it have gotten any better about going west so i out figureante and so
am we um we have been told to not pull your ricordati get down it was your your a lot less of paralo you can get so i rolled over and fell actually dispel face down and watched
the ground come up when it looked like it was pretty close i folderico and if this is your first time arching her did i did you guys you any parachuting in preparation for that
now okay uh yeah that's interesting to have a have you jumped out of a atlas a decent number of airplanes this is not something you want to do for the first time fieriest
ganeagaono anywhere to record work and um ah i remember thinking well you know i got to be radamanthus i am buckled the two low straps on misuse my god amun buckled and i had a
forty five in the shoulder ostrogoth the forty five how and i'm trying to cock it to get around in the chamber and i dropped i didn't realize my hands were brown and so i'm not
sure how i got the hashotom buckled up and so i must have been pretty low and i pulled a ripcord because just instantaneous we others i think down in a red brick building and it
had a a courtyard and a tree in the middle of a court yard nitenti could find the building i'd recognize it to day in my shoot caught in this little tree and i jerked to a stop
and i probably six inches off so of a back and um i remember doing that but then i don't remember of ruperah an i i kept thinking it's getting dark i thought i can't unmentionable
men and i'm going down what i rilewie a little head row and i had my forty five and i saw these guys down in this ditch of one not i thought they were drumann i saw they had a net
on their helmet nargis have met on the helmet now i threw my hands up a tree the forty five over my shoulder never saw than gin but um they was first aitutaki and they um could
see my shoe and i came down between the german positions and persepolis and what had happened and i find this all later they ah first impetrate we were trying to take a in you
know he started this is solid september to try to take off an we didn't get octennial november but we act took the town and the first infantry had pushed up thrown on the night of
the fifteenth had porpita in the little area a where i came down was a little town called the ellen dories and suburb of a vacante were having trouble holding it and so they were
getting ready to pull back and they saw a sheegus came out and picking up to me to all a back of bottle it before they did them an they took the end and hum into a narration
appear avisitin post and i met a full colonel and not found out later who he was he was zacate sixteen ten inter rediments and he he says he asked me if you wanted dinner i sadai
don't know what i said anyway i have a parmesan one and had dinner with in right with her in and i do remember going outside this area and franosoni her i i had eaten something
but ah they um put me in on a two and a half ton truck and where they put the autistic ers they put em in between the the what of the side gates and i there were some germans in
their own some americans and me and they hallebarde took me through what i found out later was supported fifehide and um they treated me there but ah it right at that moment i
don't remember too much about all this going on except that though it was getting dark so i thought i had been on the ground for quite a while and i found out later that my eyes
were have been pretty flashed burns on my face and the hands and the weeping in the ihai couldn't see for a couple of days so apparently i was having my eyes were swelling shutter
something a unison its getting dark but um they all been of the the ah the hospital and high was very fortunate they had a doctor there who am either had the bellowed or was using
a new technique on burns matomai the ochestra in room a was colder and hell and unvibrating like blazes and they start pickin like this and i condoled crazy and what it was he
developed his new technique where they pick this all a burn are as outgolf their so you in hell for from the inside out and as i went back to though the hospital system of they
used me as i am that i demonstration to these but kids o the men caught in tanks and badly burn much worse than i rose and they were telling him that look what we did hear locoquc
he's healing me made of using this technique and am so apparently i was one of the very first that they ever used a son but when tom we we we were put on this train the hospital
train and taken to the mercenaria in paris and they haul me if i in there and this gacon's up to many sahela know you heise pict yup it is dame was walter lennards he was the rite
first introduce ision company say and he was the second leutenant and um he became my friend he stayed with me for quite a while and he had witnessed almost all of his operation
as we joian the herald he was seen a good part and he told me a lot about what happened they they told me that um they asked the mayor twenty in it twenty enemy ecran then that
somehow or other that story has stuck to with the red mitori i don't i don't know what they were moved he um no eat he actually um ah was my got most of my information about what
had drawn on so we um we went through the hospital chain and i you know i was washin hospital for something had he in injured his well he took up he we get the hangin and he's
telling me a little bit about em infantry like and he had landed with the first interdoosin in north africa he went all to north africa and went to sicily and um he had been very
badly wounded in sicily and they um he and another officer had to man the man of tank gun on some big operation in sisterly and the two of them oh stay with the samatanee ery body
else had departed and anyway he had received a distinguished service cross and the mat was the first time i ever heard the turn to say we service cross and so tom started stared
at forty two and he ah went through north afferent to sicily went to england he made de day and ah yes is how come you're still a second lieutenant at that was if we hadn't been
in we were sent england nice the took us to the netley hospital which was his gigantic hospital right outside of south hampton that had been built in the boer wars and something
like that did look like a castle and so we hadn't been in their two hours and his cute little nurse up with a class a uniform for lintot and scotland's gone i'm in ridin' see him
for ten days so i figure it letterston was probably a person to teneforo five times a attitoods like from that you nurse in my be worse it so he valiantly know we that we were
quite close for this safe weeks and for years and years and years i tried to find linescu i knew that he made a truth to war i knew that them be dropped off separated from active
duty and had portlewaith was from the door again and i tried to find him and about a year ago my wife said altitude and in a matter of time a couple hours she finds his two sis to
a daughter and it passed dankora went back on tactitian your career he was um um antidoting uish service cross he had the purple heart was summoned clusters she was and he had
been hit he said he made the day landing and in twenty minutes he was on em oh landing craft on his way back to hingland hit that quickly on and an he do the day after i was shut
down he got hit again and he went back come after we separated he went back to the first importation company see and is one i am coming up to more recent times so i built a number
i i under to build one bustill build airport facilities but i used to build air cargo buildings and so forth in the least and to the airlines and i did a long work with flying
tigers and i knew bob press got pretty well who is he a present of tigers and a wan half news the chairman of the board of tight or to tell us a little bit about the flying tigers
if people don't know oh the flintier to narrow line a cargo arline that it was sold to fedele is now part of fedelma and tigers was named to because bob prescott was president of
tigers had tom with the fine tiger organization in china one of the original plantiers and at right after the war he started a little air line he called at bondagers in it became
a gigantic car carnotite and they were flying all over the world and so i started building facilities and leasing tom and so the new bob and new wan howkan re well nigh new the
wanhope had been one in the army and teniente but that we never talked about him and a wan wife a rode a a book and she took all wings letters that he had written home for europe
dorner and put them in this book and so they gave me a book and i read it and i come to september sixteenth a wan hoffman is the ellendorf germany in the the first part of the six
perlino five o'clock in the evening in his letter to his wife he said the versaret he said i am in ellador and there's a narrowing on above us and we give talking that was me in
your weefrees hamminum of years in miniature about it and he was a company d to the sixteen redmen were got was company she of the sixteenth regiment and we never put all this
together thathanabaing it it's amazing what comes out i found out that um ah two of the people there on the german side that i have been bold both are a cure anejo bores ah they
titians on a hope for you want to go with us we gosling as you want to talk they um ah major borussians tap i i heard from a gentleman in holland and they had some information
above my plane and this gentleman i have written several big historical books a lived in ah in that little area where belgium and holland and dominate all come together and he had
found like five hundred wrecks their craft wreckin this area and prayed down in the history and to the recorded it and they came up with a piece ereit in ellen dark germany and so
they figured out and bounded with mirnan they found it in nineteen ninety seven to anyway in the series of steps i detente get contact with me and ah he had studied of that that
pervear in that area and was writing another book about that in esoon to talk to me about we do but unfortunately he passed away but a very early was a young man and so i i never
got a son your from the recofering is there someplace waiting for me pinfire told me that he had he came up with two names that ah he had read this book by callwells called the
the ah war dar of j g twenty six the yellownose abiboo yellings berrand um they had written on seven sixteen feet had the story about attacking the three this the seventh of crew
and the demands claim em for peterie ideen shot down and that wasn't true i was young one that lost they actually attack the group after my engagement with an they finally got
their actuate i guess in the tact to group and didn't do too well but like twenty minutes certamen its later with ever the time of him but he figured out to one of two people had
shot me down one fellow was wismar reorus major bors had shot down his first victory was as nineteen thirty ninety shot down a spitfire he had it if he got me i was his forty
second victory the other die was a doutelle of by the name or keeping a lot and that he he got me i would have been his eighty second we so these guys were not begin ofand um so
all this information driving him over the last sixty years so by the time i find out about borealia oh there they die so i never got a chance to talk with them but see scott we
found scots amadour is a very famous so interior decorator in san francisco and so we're going to get together with her and she said that of her father passed away and a verily a
abetas news pities in but so all of this skeepskin we keep him covered more more i find something not accidently of a beyond earth to her initiatory a gambian told us about the
nurse oh nothing you with your clothes or northeast rated tatatatatat inaniter room nevigation the young leaf it someone youneverse lovely noreason you like me we all know what
happens to a sinewy were so wonderful commingles gals were disunion they took care of the onasta at no evered simple troupes whatever as nurses that were over in france in the
rereading gudrid off the front line o ye he well they they have me on this forty fifth and i wake up and i'm here in all of this big bang and going on all the bordereau in there's
a right behind a here this on a hundred and fifth a hundred and five articulative the hoogeland uh they took me to from there i went to um ah the hospital if the general hospital
and a inbrought in brussels no morose for the man the master and ah i left there one day in an the next day after i left bobbon a rock oetting worritin to the side of the hospital
of he and i a pictures of it that i took missus later lie second to or through the hospital which is another story but um ah so that that was a big tragedy manchild ren under the
people met one of them wardons nurses if i knew but how long did it take you to recover and it did you fly again or was that was being shot down in and wounded was at the end of
the war for you no well it was in combat ruy of oh i went through gaspit can and oh i reel was released in england went back to houstonias and ahohite hospitals with collect
uniform no they took all my fine jacket everything was burned from the recoal they strictly down thro it all away and so now men hospital in england and their going to let release
men ungladly scrawen number to fly this is in november and no aribert at heel pretty well and so they give me a uniform you to wear and i'll know how many guisthorpe as sky
whoever uniform of was it than hit but you was all sore a bunch of holes in a iaspidi the hat in so i had no money and so i'm i'm crestonia back or when to london and then i got a
flight to paris and i got to paris and till i decide bolometer and i'm on my way back to squadron of i'm going to see something so i westondale o club and um a used to like
athelstan but i i like swing an so i'm in toledo club and and they have this free little gal singing ah ah so prince tones and then they want to take what asked the depeople the
want to do a little generationed quite a night and talapolin on where i'm drones and i walking down the avenue here comes a daganoweda goes with pink orindore jersey did never
think damn there comes my battle jacket my pants heswall friends in my interworking meeting at the claridge hotel right mesalliance all sudden a better dress to hades a barren one
and a windowed paris and in as you get back a squadron went back to the squadron with them and he had dressed for tations i went back with them and in there for a gallawater
body's glad to see me and and um ate say how we just got a brand new peeper he ate in brightening ireland is enthrones and a boy it was a beauty so i'm already start flying again
and talk bird who was our plight is not this comes to many says siiesian like the way you walk in mutabilis aliatar it everything's fine and he said well we're going over this we
were ready seven to eight seventy eight at that time for an belgian seagoose erronan distract arms i over the certhia a charlatan and the next to you know i got a cast and her
down the my ruanda the extra men and my had broken back said they hadn't treated so so ah back to the hospital and so he did a one true tanena the third military oh well they had
a what they did that they had a a sentry metonimically section and they run all the pilots to there and then they would determine what happens to them till i kept saying well i
might go back to squadron in so they said okay we're gonna you got your cast and may took the big cast off and put a small in on it i were goin to send you to england for at least
thirty days to a flathouse well flathouse sewer runboard cross and mainly worrier crops it moor crew had brer tidlers as some edened for a week or so and so they sent me to this
lachousan the first thing i get in trouble with it the red crosses as quite pilots like to talk about tom van and plying a famous in want to have any thing to do with that
comendacons tion so the red cross is upset remain they told me that got to keep my mouth shut i said with fine or keep my mosheim going to do this give me a set of borders and
i'll go off to some base cause i'm i can walk so i've had a little plan usted beget your flying time your pay you had to fly for hours a monk so i would he i'd ride a set of
orders and said that i i distemper duty and ollamoor hours and flow of line times so i go off to some base and with the with the small cast on and oh ah i say god walked in and
taoism orders i need four hours fling time and so they do raise an i fly to for hours and in the probationary coupled asathor and ride more orders and go some place else so i got
to play in number of her crop well i was there and so pretty soon my thirty days a rover i go back a third mental medical and um they send me back to the squadron you'll got bird
was not happy to see me at all and at that time i got hoarder general spotted carters do in paris and i said dum bayenthurme well i was doing down there for and some colonel came
a king of the squadron he also assigned on this same deal since setterers and so we go on to paris together and his name was in toledo and he ended up of two or three star general
the head decorations from his neck founderies waist all ready and so no i did found a paris not gone yet the distant re service cross the outside of them letters scot we never
really told me what to distinguish ormiston was here wasn't sure what we were about to get in the ennyway we we got that and went back to the squatter again thinking everything at
least as is pretty close to ride and a bird says you're going home and so that was the end of that except on grounded and amantha quam going on a grounded and so i haven't i had
all these records with me and yelleppit and i suppose they still do you carrion records with you so i'm going home grounded i got my records well i still have those records in
there in opallers down in my hanger nobody else ever called his theaulon home he took a medical and passed it and so i'm back on flying to gore don a teelee could might be of a
going to out to the pacific and to make a invasions of manhattanites people one befiting ah comare and a with my childhood sweetheart who i met when she was fifty and now
everything is right in the world on and harry dreamin dropped the bomb and if i ruined a perfect hickories about an i stayed in till my tenor eight i got to fly or first set in
and had a wonderful time at a wonderfuller the hecale lot you got the dothing that when i never happened to me we had a gottinelli this so worked out great and so how did you you
to and up the meeting well i isolani are plain and i was looking for a hanger for the airplane and a and jim was building hangers at the time and this little little bit airport up
in the valley above santa barbara consentians and he helped me a billenger and ah it it was kind of interesting in the attraction and it is in fact my wife brought this up messes
said you know you can have three generations of warriors talking to these stone forms comitante spot cash i e got a jim conklin thirty years lady got charlie fumitory years laruja
jack a wink he said and there's a is this or attraction with warriors i know wot it is with our brains you know but to some kind of a caramagna tis were something yet i dinna fly
with a guy that have been in combat him so even though there are in their probably a hundred pilots on this airport a juice cunhado without even now in our history a and a more we
got to know each other i like twenty years ago the more we got to know each other when the more ah sin reflashed of life you no we have and a and so is not just our flying cause
jim still lies course i still fly and ah of course i've got an old anti care plain that a from his training days ah and ah but more than that the technology is changed that the
enemy has changed ah from woradoo viet nam to iraq in that putteth comradery of military guise i know that there is something and unloose that you talk about jackanapes in your
books just the you know the fact that you were all cantabile were responsible not just rolies with for our bodies and as something about that that community of warriors that that
really connects so that's how geminate that started the belt the hanger for me in the end and i moved in my wife and made a man came out of it so as to me that that that's we are
where you was it here now in this yet it was we we we joke about that on the first time you are on the poast that that you had the old to mitmann cave and you know i kind of throw
that out there but now that i've been here is actually actually true that you do have a man cave and ah how much i can open take a bunch of picture may be with into a video like a
little tortenson kind of what this is all about and and all the i mean the the history that you have here and the pictures be photographs and and the you know pieces of aircraft
and everything else is it's it's phenomenal to look at and he was interesting so when i got here um you know with you you were walking around and in and jim hanger as a few
hangers down and you know you said he i want to show you something and and i said oh well you know okay i feed on it i don't well have any idea what i was so we we get out and we
walk from your hanging or walking down towards jim jim's hanger and you we shake ands an a a meet jim for the first time and he says you want to show you something and i say all
tell you know ned and he goes it's a picture and i said oh of some and i i've no idea what to expect and he says it's some one you know and i said okay well that narrows it down
but i don't know you know i don't know who i haven't any in common you know with jam or i don't know i've been no idea and no idea who this was over the pectus going to be so we
go to jim's man cave which is an each equally impressive and an olesome you know hanger with you know his personal facts and pictures and models and parts of aircraft and
everything else and he walks into a corner and and he picked up a picture and he hands me this picture and the picture i immediately i know who is an it's it's this second tenant
from the rancor to pitch yer a young chinese american second weena from the marine corps and it it's it's turtle c i i talked about in podcast number fifty three older than hell
and i i went kind of off about him a little bit i talked about him a lot because if you remember from this particular pot cast and from that particular book this is at the chosen
reservoir and and this second lieutenant curtly he was while these guys or engaged in indistinctes continuous combat in order to lead his men he fashioned a a florescent orange
vast out of some signaling material and were out of some perisher something he made this vest for self so that he would be completely visible to all of his men now that also mean
he's obviously completely visible to the enemy as well but that was what kind of a leader that this guy was looked oomiak extras pread on were aware to make his happen amachure a
nowhere where i am and you can follow me through whatever and it's an incredible story of of heroism so that's the picture that jim puts in front of me is his picture of of curtly
and i i kind of look at him and i you know and and it turns out that you that you knew curtly the curried friend the therefore and am quite a story and i have tremendous for his
pecorino have tremendous respect for his principles to the last day of the decoy die and that in a fond membrance yet it was tanerton story to you cause ettino her thing that we
talked about was in part of that what he did at one point in that book i don't remember it specifically but he basically dress is some one down in the middle of a fire fight for
not giving him your not calling him sir not calling a lieutenant and you know i'm kind to say he guineahen about when the right time to do this is but as you said he was in a
stremely principled person hidget those foretolds well you know the umhlahlo of marines of true mamie to relieve fox company which is quite an ofwe'll known story in the morning
cart apocopes holding a hill that commanded the escape route other whole chosen reservore group army el oh marinore and ah they they were under heavy attack in the the idea was to
get down and support them and curtly a good speak heerpoor dialects of chinese and so he's leading these ease scout whose actuating the whole contingent of rings through the night
through heavy snow oh terrible terrible conditions and actually as a came across of chinese sentries troops he with talk to them in chinese and they got the whole whole contingent
got food and ah ah they made it in time they relieve porkumpine tremendous story that i it is unbelievable story an unblinded that picture to me and and that you knew him i'm in
that system fanominon am was there anything charlie that when when you were all lost time was or anything that you know i know we we talked for a few hours i think eleithias very
major thing that as you listen to it again that you said yourself i know what i should i should talk about this as well not that nothing that which as specifically comes to mind
ah but now that you know that the three uh barriers are here together in i think we should talk a little about philosophies of combat in the fears that we faced a because i think
etate girault vast majority of your listeners and viewers are not military a andsome my tides won't how do they relate or interesting history you know i love the history of the
greater generation and i i i love your history as well and the things that are going on to you know to day that the guises at the point of the of the spear but what does that mean
to the you know to the average guy you know who who's never been in the military there's some principles i believe that the three of us learned in combat that can that transfer
boni think to to all challenges of life you know the the just you know the fact that you face your fears eester in to the end to the box and and jim did it and you've done it than
where you you could have run the other way you know you you could have quite could have checked out but you know i mean all all three of us felt like that we had a duty a duty
gorcut than did he to our brotherhood ah and so we you know picked up the now picked up the utanatiu on him in so i et me that sort of the important part the part that you can you
can transfer more than just the notary history that we all have the the filosophy a of meeting challenges because i'm convinced the ayeau can be injustice much of a oficiales in
your life you don't you have to be flying jettenwald i selteneck lenge wettiners on is diagnosed with cancer loses a child or for that matter get cut out of your way on the
freeway ah fathie and and the choice that you make the certainly depends on not only your character but then it also transmit into the outcome of the character that you continued
to be in life and so while we are you know thirty sixty years of part in or in our generations here or philosophies of life and the warrior am siha continuous and so i am just
really really proud to be a part of this and proud to be a with you jacanars with you jim jim niyoh probably come times a monthly get together with have dinner or her wives
innocuo meals and we go fly sometimes and a and there's a certain silent language i think between us of that we don't even at the talk to each other a yet wanderstab what what's
going on you know what where where were coming from and the the accountability that that we share a just because of the experiences that we've had i got asked the question the
other day i was torkesey actually no sinecure with companies doing a speech and i was doing some cuneated in aguas me how do you define character and how do you build it and i
actually never been asked his cousin before and quite frankly i hadn't really thought about it very much and and this guy had to thought about it and i thought the outerward and
it was something that he was why he really wanted to hear me talk because he wanted to get my perspective on this and i answered the question like this i said you know for me
character is not a very complex thing for me character is you do what's right you do what's right you do the right thing that's what you do and if you do the right thing
regardless of what the consequences are that at that represents character and so then how do you build character it to beautiful thing because it's the same thing if you want to
build character you do the right thing you do the right thing for yourself you do the right thing for your family you do the right thing for your thepeople that you know you do
right thing for your community you do right thing for your country that's what you do and ill on an individual level those things our hard things often right if those are hard
things you have to make the right decision you have to be live a disciplined life those built character those little things that you do on a daily basis to make yourself better to
improve your health through improve your your situation in life your doing those things there heard dido and when you do those things they build your character and ultimately they
lead to your your your character being ugogians opposed to a bad one but i never been asked that question before and i thought that the simplicity of it is pretty clear when you
think about it you know when you think about the people that you know in on it when i think about the the people that i worked for in the military or that work for me upward down
the chain of command what i what is it that made them people that cause you know there's battery we we can't sit here and pretend like everybody that just because you in the
military you've got great carter that's absolutely not true but what about those people on it i onthought fightin in three seconds as this guy asked me this question you i thought
i soporiferous that i know that have good character that i looked to and say ye the this person i'd trust you know without question what kind of person is that that's the person
that you know is going to do the right thing all the time regardless of the consequences and a couple of things about that first of all it is an easy in fact usually the right
thing is the toucheth it it is the is the hard decision the second thing is it doesn't letur out um for the best when he do the right thing lithodomes we stumble he know and and
your listeners may think that the three of us you know of always it'll be on the top of heap but the whole three had fallen short you know i mean i'll tell you this a languishing
and prison camp the first the first month in that prison camp i laid there in in in blood sweat and tears and ah and and my mental state was just in the tank because i'd given up
fight a point post to give up jim and i weren't trained to curanter and and my my mental the depression that i had just because of that anything that largely in life you know when
you do do the right thing and it doesn't turn out right then you have to get up dust yourself off get back in the back in this in the fray and that stuff to do it now the last
thing you want to do when when when you're gettin beat up every from every side and you really want to quit the last in an i do is to is to stand up in and be forceful again to do
you to to take control the situation and yet it's those kinds of challenges in life that bilateral at this that really make the difference between an know that the the the
positive life of the life lived well and those guys and gallows that they don't make those kind of decisions and you talking about when you were when you are depressed when you
were laying there it's because you felt like you had failed friend you felt like you had broke in you felt like you weren't the man that you've thought you were mum and if they'd
found your breaking point and you'd found your breaking point and you didn't like that emanate i remember correctly what what what got you throw that was you know you you went
broke down and to go on to your point years sell mates and said well this is horrible i o i m a obadias alapai i broke and he kinaston to the club we all break it was like one of
those things yet and i think to point absolutely every one every one has a point where they go oh you know i i i i failed to hear idioted hat i was supposed to do i lacked
vicarate that i needed at that time to to be a good leader or two even stand up and fight one more time i failed and the point is a alstine around at this dale and every single
person that's listening to this right now you can find a spot your life where you said you know what i didn't do it i didn't hold the line i nonemete bread i wasn't the person
that i should have been at that moment had not thats absolutely true but what's more important in the fact then that we all get to a point where we break is never one that every
way breaks and number two that doesn't mean it's over that just made that just it's a bumpered and you got to rebuild from it you got a come back and you can you can do that and
not only that but slighly that bump and a road bills your character even further because you understand you limitations and you understand that you can overcome these things and
at weanock to this story of the prisons of bore five hundred ninety one of his came home and from that five hundred ninety one men we produced seventeen generals and six admirals
and most of his retired as senoreena offers weiteren plans and commanding fleets and and batalions on over the world we have a bunch of congressmen to united states enegertic
president icinity president or kennedy a all from five hundred ninety one guys how and in so at an end we all felt like we'd fail we all felt like le given up but even because of
that adversity etowee came out stronger than ever before i think that thrilly goes also to the fact that i i mean what year saying is assentially the fact that you have to know it
you have to understand what your weakness is are you really do and and you after understand human beings and what human beings weaknesses are and for me you know no socrat this
atonon this pot cast you have to understand that there's that human beings are capable of doing very dark and horrible things or in a few can't and if you can't recognize that you
yourself are capable of the dark and horrible things and of the weak things well then you're not really being truthful with yourself and and with your existence really as a human
being and you had noreason when you have northends i think that's when they sneak up on you i think you're right i think that's the crux of our real serious challenge with suicide
within the veteran population and and i worked on this and jim's work on asano on it is well a and what are the advantages we had as prisners of war is that week that we exposed
ourselves you know we recognize our weakness and and to a man we knew that we weren't a strong as we wanted to be and so i just just that community that we built within the prison
captain or walls and tugging on wires or secret coats very difficult to communicate with everybody else but we had leadership there that turn that that that turned that whole
thing around and in the leadership had weedeen a victim animae junior officer there i mister j g i'm ataman i mean her coming prison camp i am leading them for open wounds i've no
medical care and i i am in starring i've been tortured ah i'm down a hundred and fifteen pounds and i'm not on the defensive i not a victim that you pull a pipe big boy passes you
on with this same went a word of fight and and and and so the leadership cole reap the they re focus the whole purpose of of our bean there and that an end gave us a mission they
think that's one the challenges we face when a guy gets out of the military or gal and takes off that uniform he loses the purpose he loses that mission on and and it iustices
that community any pastoniac tie or you know puts one a golf shirt on and goes out in an and try to re connect with people and at genista were talking about it now as a being in
sailants and paris and you you would looking for some way to re connect it with with your unit and ironic lay here they come marching down the champs elysees the lido and and and
and there you were backing you for him and and and so you and and you had a a rested her you had a purpose a reason to live just because of of the group that you are sociated with
and allender i speak publicly i you know i challenge an audience that if i got it it it if you know a veteran i know a taliman on to give him a perpessio know in vitement or in
dearest club or your church and i make make a difference and that way you can serve your country by serving those who served their country yet if it's interesting to know jim you
kind o you kind of made that a joking comet you know hey tremando the bomb and and ruined a perfectly good war and we all laughed at it but we all also kind of understand that
there some level of of reality to that end you think when you're in the military iwis you know as i was talk about the fact that when i joined the navy was nineteen ninety it just
missed the first call war and like i was completely dismayed by that because you know they hadn't been oalways basically since vietnam so been twenty years nothing anoither was
there was my shot to to fight the war i just missed it and and so that that what you're talking about of hey you feel like this is your purpose and and this is what i'm supposed
to be doing with my life and it's a higher purpose and it's a higher cause and if something that is is bigger than you and so your part of it if you'll good and you want a ostade
you want to help and then when it's over you look around and you go away to second what's my higher of purpose now mum and and i think you're right that's where people get a
trouble because they are so tied to their old higher purpose and they can't transition to the new one and you i get great fee back from from that's all the time that they do they
open up the kay well why i going to do now that's that's what i'm looking at what your next mission can a be and what is and you now you're next mission might be being a good dad
right and how my bearnese know it or not mesembria building airplane hangers you know he you don't know what your next missions going to be but find out what you're next mission
going to be make it something productive make it something that's going to impact you know at least you and your family and diccotty pick something that's somewhat selfish and you
say hey i want to i want to serve on every continent okay that sounds like a good missionary that's on like a really going hoveringly come up with something you can in yours my
mission in this ere to do with it in this is him got a go forward but i yet i think that the lack of purpose in the lack of mission that guy stumble into is problematic and end it
is problematic to because in the military it's i don't want to make the saumanong way because i was talk about the fact that for us we didn't get past missions like when when when
i was a rawthere was no higher up telling me you as in a take in his target or you guys goin to take the that happen occasionally probably less than five percent of the time most
of time we developed our own missions but over all when you're in the military you have a broad mission that your trying to accomplish which again is for societal good and so when
that disappears guess what you have some autonomy now now what d you going to choose as your next messina you goin to do how are you going to prove yourself a napron your life
your families your communities or your countries or the world what he gonna do to make it better and you see the that that are out there that are doing that man a they made they
they go sell the lady you know and i was in the house pillarettes the war is an aspettare i mean i i i i didn't have any serious problems but i was in a deep reefing and but i had
figured out in that hospital and even on the way home that might my next day of life is onging to it to try to forget all that six years of ah in that prison camp at six years of
pain and i even had it figured out a inocente town and middle of nowhere where they'd never heard a charley promenade i changed my name because i don't want anybody knowing my
history i want you know on a slide back into the shadows of life and and i i i was serious about that you know my my height my high schools we hearted just a file for divorce so
three months before i came home in a and and so i was in oyere and i i felt energies but i really didn't want have anything to do with the vietnam war or any of the pain that i
had faced there saw no value in it and i was so i was a first guy back that from the war in the enemies and so so the news media you know really wanted to talk to me and so i
found myself surrounded by about a hundred an fifty fotografer and reporters in the base where that hospital and i told my story and on the way back kept the whoite room just as
the elevator doors closed this young reporter am came up to me and i'm not in those with this young guy but he's got lines of anguish in his brow and tears in his eyes and he said
mister plume really got to me in there he said i've had a miserably year my family's falling apart my job is terrible he said i even wondered if i wanted to go on with in he said
you've given me hope what well i hadn't intended to give anybody an he hope i'm just telling my story here you know on and and it surprised me that there was some value in the
experience and so nansie said well yes in fact that you know the the pain of that experience can help one person you know it in life then may be there is a purpose to it and so i
so i rode about moobray and nice started promote that book and an end i found that yester there's there's a lot of connection with people with challenges and you don't have to be
in the military have challenge and ah annimile my experience might have been a more dramatic you know than most and intenerating torregiano onoah it still you know are the the
challis thy face where the chalices it you know that that a single mother trying to make in me makes you know the frustration and the loneliness and the in the the lack of
confidence in the feeling that your not measuring up in yon all these things there these are peter common human feelings can you not to be in a prison camp not to be imprisoned
hearth's great recall i was i was cursed never heard before about the black houses and that the bombers the but the bomber crews were being sent to when they but when they
basically sin eight where were done right now and the wall was the cash will be rate of the bomber cruise it was something completely insane wasn't it will was the valetudine
mission requirement of percentages said they couldn't make it now were talking in it early thirty three at the start of the heavy bombing was like forty two so what a ileliobas in
on that for one second orexei every one with that means cause i i did know about the twenty five so if you were a bomber crew you are flying in a inwitation to seventeen b twenty
four a besetment four big giant flying fortress and they would get at the hack ruthlessly attack in the flight deep into france and oninterested would get swarmed and attacked by
you know by german fighter pilots and an also anticristo from the ground and so it was it was hellish to get through and it was so bad that they said okay well all you have to do
is this many missions and the number was twenty five which i did know that number he had the make up through twenty five of these bomongo was it you did have to do any more but
you're saying the chances of actually making it through those twenty five was minimalist no sure some people are going to deduce some people are going to be shot down on their
first mission they don't get a second motion but a enesis sur problem with the abbewation the men we all most lost appinion we came close for we were at the ragged edge with and
all ianito what i learned is as a youngster who that time trying to be an aviation codetta hanging on by our finger tips when you say we almost lost that one you mean we almost
had to stop the bombing camden well the british were after as soon beyanst to tight forming for this very same reason it fayaway from the piers and and so our philosophy of
hebronites back to general mitchel in the in the early and thirties and late twenties no factory twin that the bombers will fight their way through and that was the theory of the
best seventeen and gashney were heavily armed but there off they were opacating enemy and there five hundred miles from home and anahuans all i got t do step out and they don't
like what's going on bailout to come come down and i go get another or plane but ah ah those were dark days and they were dark days and till the first o fighters the peterport
seven canonigo so deep bright what could he like two hundred miles deep at two hundred two hundred and miles yes and in have enough to outage home long interest the times to both
the other three hundred mile round trip or four hundred extra miles where all the bombers by himselves vii was fifty miles it was hell and once a fighter turned back oh so they
sent for a eended up with for four groups of kephert eight of thirty eight was not ray to go to war over rated oderan of that time if the elderthwaite probably with the arplan and
we didn't have the latest modifications to the airplane so a part of our problem was engine problems with the alienage but they went anyway and so then the fifty one came along at
fifty one had a british engine who had bewitched been developed in that very same hoheria and they you they weren't happing to call that there there enginemen designed it operated
sixty degrees below zero and so they they matched the two often so unlike forty three they get the first group over there an now there's a little hope they are planted goethe
whole av ut thirty eight of been gooroolay but thirty eight and then modified for the pacific does no heat my cock fit and your setting up there at sixty deg three below zero
freezing your tail off with it oxygenates actually frozen to your face ah he came in to atone for spot in the whole comitates your right foot slept haytedder thing else is
reservant off then if so and they had so we had problems of luckily the the british engine and the fiction and martaban tremendous design put together the airplane that could do
the job uh the umanitarians at oronte hole the whole dangers a whole way in the horison and go some place else while as the thirty eight gold do that you had the feedeth but to
and again you know is to an old story about the thirty eight canoroe heart there was too great militating to the perthshire eight at delatour the bombers and there hid with piers
you can get into a scrap and their german bulls over and they had the fire explained the flickering in condon they do a flick roll in split us majorite deck if it thirty eight did
that and tried the fallen the airplane would accelerate into what we call a compressibility and compress ability was nothing more than a shock wave off it at the uthe wing the
killalla control in your impanation couldn't fall out so all you could do is ride it down and to you got into what we call thick air got the iterated your trimaleyon a property
with gradually bring you out of that divinator you have to ground some of them fifty round so of an we didn't have realised rometh at so they developed a onloose could actually
wear withand ah they had the dielooted in you could actually hit the diplopappus that her plan straight down and die with anybody in a dreaming fighter so whatlike did they got
four hundred six ships sets of divels nailin boot they put em on enothereae transport plainan they send it to hingland who got in her ceptions coast flatheaded now anything about
it they both it was a german condor for his never by shot it down on was there there goes all our oroose what do you do now the toqui a while to pull all those bonedust gather
when geniolatry so for the next couple of months that a thirty eight are doing the same old thing we don't have the improvement kepatica along thank god and it can do the job so
it's all history this fifty one sad trouble we i know of one to pull out of a given whole yonanghe airplane and regiously had engine quit terebrating ingineeur lem and somebody
throws a rock at in a hipster old done so um but those were trying times yea i guess i was a weal that you know thinking about these these guys that were in those bomber trees
that would need a break and they say okay he need to go over or not think about this and they reminds me of you or talk about the youngins from the first to fileant ers and what
he would say when he would see guys were getting stressed out you know he'd get him off the line get him out of it and and give them the rest that they need and and then i think i
think there's a certain party because okay like i need not think about this right now and then i think you got a say okay now i'm going to talk about this and and the fact that
you get around to your your friend that's a lot of people that listen upon testator editha listnois you know now you know i've i've had my break but now you're talking about this
stuff and i i appreciate it and i you bring me let me know that i'm not the only guy that thinks this way or had those thoughts or you know went through this and i think that's
that's good so i think it's i think i do need a break and actually got it now at think about it when i was in remote i had i the book that i read every night was about face by
conopaea worth and i read it every single out everything leat everything of it and in about three months ended a ployment i i i wanted to iside want to think about you know i know
any go to bed sleep so thinking about you know the war and war and and so i there was a random book sitting around in a picked up it was actually a book called the electric cool
adasa test which is about the happiest written by tom wolf who wrote the right stuff here but it's a great book and it was casoolty outside of what i was doing that it gave me you
know like a mental break and i read that book and it was you know it took me four days to read that book and i got donnotaurus back out and i continued on but i just need a little
little bit of a breeder right is a little bit of a mental briefer and i guess he is in last provided me with sedendo those hippies now as deep providing me with this alltogether
he and he was actually so veriter interesting boat book and it shows the mentality that those people had you know which was the way he sometings was me me me me everything about
me and and that was what was good for me to read this book in my okay that's not how i want to be with imy life is not about me it about me a what we're trying to do here so the i
think sometimes people need a mental break i i can't even imagine what the you know what was going on in one of those flathouse with those guys that's alien arenar for i sarasate
were run by the red cross and i was of most swordman's right on the time river a course i was there when we had the ice storms and back when i left the the black as if ah to
gabachos i couldn't get a ride across the channel and is what ah our friend weiller got a ride and disappear and so i'm trying to get across the channel a to paris and it so did
drink christmas and new years and ahaiwa i went out to a the seven abases round run london agent and eighty sorca go to paris and there are grounded and so i went down to
southampton and ahto ships had just come in to southampton or going on to the harm and so i got on board and they were hospital ships ah with the other complete compliment of
glegeal hospitals like two or three different general hospitals and repullulate new years eves fewer on the ship with all these nurses and were on a i guess you call a battle
stations because the ebonian both roper ating in the channel and were going across from southampton to hallow and all his nervous nurses from the use to comfort the authorities
for that now anesoomya that was ossory maitai drought to be in of this story i've forgotten i had it naterally atoopa couple of things when we were talking sandeman i got shot
down you read the sightin my i didn't know anything about that siction ah i had gotten my fanny shawl i was not happy i said i can think what could i have done different that i
can a state in that pieling ah and i i never come up for the mansarawar could i have done so for about from september till i get this orders to go to paris despotes headquarters
iras not the highest unintimate is why did i odinwald not have done a better job but a reading that side tation and then the longing to a group called the legion of bower which
there not too many or force guile in a ah and i read what these people have done a thecret what am i very close friends in the head of distinguere crossing they distorted the to
congress a letter vorticellae a bit of publicity and he was in the anamanamona when i ah i saw that he had got in congress in atlantis late day ah i thought was god somebody
finally read his side tation and when you when you think that that what all these gods did along the polesine he grignol are medoc what they did in combat conditions and god to
stinguish corps across as they be crossed and soforth it's you know i i remy i tation it took six minutes that's all and then i read a book called on no hero ocean i think
canoncito six years of that my six minutes for me oh that's i mean g'wan he went through is this unbelievable to me instead of give me the wantabadgery and that tabu and so it's
it's i it's the thought with an attempt at your saying that alencon one more question that you capell because jim and i both talked about getting shot down and feeling miserable
after your your fight were you accidentally killed one of the iraqi soldiers o that you felt pretty little back that you that's about as it's about as bad as it gets so and am you
know was out as horrible situation it was the fogara was multiple units all on the battle field it was it was actually not not me that was that that shot and iraquois one of my
small teams that was in a position where you know amongst the confusion they were all soled by a friendly group of iraqis liers with one they had one marine with them and yet the
inwit's it's it's something that you can it's hard to make um you know definite statements or or or say i know this for a fact but there's pretty much not anything worse in war
than friendly forces killing from before this that this that just as bad as gifts and it's a real taboo in in special operations for sure a taboo any and all tell you during the
during the i guess we'll say the dry years in between vietnam n n the caraher's were in there was we actually lost the understanding of how these things could happen and and no
one really understood the fog of war any more and therefore we didn't train to a properly and so when it happened it was i it was i an unbelievable thing it was so bad it was the
absolute worst thing that cop actually i i would say there be one more thing you know the sole the the person that was killed a soldier as kiltas and i rackesie you know if it had
been a sea ornamerited i guess that would make it one level higher for me because i would have known the person you know in this case it was an iraqi again a tragic loss none the
less but the how did i feel i felt it felt absolutely horrible and the thing that you know the thing that changed the mind set for me was when i realized that as i sat there in an
reviewed because no my commanding officer was coming to inspect and in review what had happened along with the investigating officer and you know the thing that changed my mind
set was as i sat there and said okay whose fault is this whose fault is as whose fault is it his fault as his and i'm looking at all the different mistakes that were made by all
the different units and all the different people as i'm looking a blame this on some one it would became very clear to me in a like a bolt of lightning that there is only one
person in charge of this and therefore on one person responsible for what happens out there and that's me and honestly the when i had that transition in thought and it was it was
the first moment that i i felt actually ok ah there is a horrible sinking feeling that you get in in in wartime situations i guess you can get another time to have talked about it
with wet some of my friends ittienne is just a really horrible is happening you get this not in your stomach and this it it's i've never felt at any other time but when i was
overseas of of light this is i i have it it's the holmost horrible feeling and am that was that was the most severe i ever felt it was leading up to my own recognition that you
know what an end where that was coming from was the unknown and i did know how to react to it and here i was now mister xperience seal mister you know in charge of the task
unitiate and yet here i was going how to deal with this and i did understand how deal with it and when i had to do was go to what i actually did know which is if you're in a
leadership isis you take responsibility for what happens that's what you do so hay that's what you do and if if they're goin to fire you you get fired i they're goin to repremand
you you get reprimanded the if they're going to replace you with some one else you get replaced you salute you do the best turn over you can you try and do the ogive all the
information you can that's what you do and as soon as i accepted that and looked at it and said okay well then at that not started to go away and i realised that ocatilla problem
here is is he the way that you're looking at this but a endthen the other big thing is one you imitate those or an you take ownership of those problems and you actually not to
stake on shiphouses here's a problem in her hoeret get them solved here is the standard operating for cedars that will now go in to follow to make sure that there's never happen
again well then people look at you and they go okay he's got a plan he's not sitting here dodging the the blame for vest he actually taking ownership with problems in he's going
to give us all penisioner had this conversation with my commanding officer a bow he is reaction but i could see it you know hokusai and the fact that i the fact that he said okay
you don't look mature doesn't have togai i like the procedure that your putting in place escaut ion proceed you know where he is it i believe that if i would said what was my
father was his fault than that valteres all he reset okay you need you're not going out the job any more and i think that's the same thing with life you know no minute that you
you looking around you and your saying hey it someone else's fault that this madman this bad situation and again you know what okay there's things that happen i i get that there's
things that happen to compel you mention one of them you can get a disease that you can't control you you know you can get ah you can have you a child get a hit by a carbines
awful things that can happen that you can't have control over but what you can have control over is how you proceed and how you go forward and that's the part that you need to
focus on because the the opportunity to pick what happened in the past it's gone i i am sorry there's no time machine there is no way of going back i happened it's gone okay how
are you going to move forward where you goin to go now that's what you need to focus on and i said that about regret to people say oh you i i live with no regrets on my alter's
all kinds of things i'll tell you regret but i don't walk around with him because i can't do it anything about him like you know maybe you would have maneuverer f a little bit
differently on september sixteenth nineteen forty four you looked out of mayaguana you've got a but you don't walk around carrying that because it doesn't matter any more and it's
the same thing with the things i've been through it like okay look i made mistakes you may be six we've all made mistakes okay will we in odo are ye an to all on those i let them
you know bear down on us and even things that we can't control maybe the mistake was ours something that we couldn't control not gonna carry that i'm going to ongineer that regret
onsartin can do them before and as you there's a great guy just had on the potestas robed jones he is a marine he fought in iraq and it aftertaste and he ended up he was a he was
a bomb disposed all dining for minds a combatant and he he ended up finding a mine and he ate found that mine we know with his own feet and he he lost both of his legs and he said
something that was was also he says you know you've got this weight dittering down on you and he was sitting in a hospital bed and then he had this weight that was bearing down on
him of his going to live now dress of his life with you know both legs amputated above the knee and he know he said what am i going to do with this weight and i gonna let it and i
going to let it push me down and and bury me under the ground or my guneus that wait to make myself stronger and i think that's a incredible added you have a hen and by the way he
is about to run thirty one meropon to verimond run thirty one marathon in thirty one days in monterey unbelievable she's on you know the toughest flying and i ever did ah was in
combat in support at the ground troops and they bring a sin a with the rochermonts re napalm we did have a gun on it or point and a but we knew that we had to get close but not
too clothes to to the friendlies ah to be effective you know a good week old inapt our weapons you know forty clicks away and and and do it good at all but we get into closest it
sending the mustaches of ovales are ringing down there and and and i by the way if you get too close actually goes away beyond singing mustaches if you go to close you can kill
friedlin were over what we isolate that a night very and it was done you know what i mean will it again the folgefond that's what happened in really really infortunes i would get
that not in my stomach when i i was called in to support the ground troops in a fact with you know tortofitas smoke signal or lie look at the wind and trying to figure out exactly
how i can get in their clothes and lotions i would go booteraidge of the bomb i was dropping just so i could get more accuracy and and we all did that you know we we were supposed
to but ah you know an average bombilation bombarder fragata e twenty four hundred feet above the ground that's what you were flying through after you dropped the palm and we'd go
below that just to get more accuracy on said because we knew that those guys were to pinones and boy they were there were some happy facts you know we have to after we would
histor those ground troops but it was some you know it was the pretty scary stuff um but back to your point about beneath people i had a coach early on the very losing team sorry
sah but at betty he would eat he and he told us is he because we'd start you know blaming other things for the problem you know eate were away and we didn't you know that things
weren't right and so base we blamed somebody for this or somebody thentheth rats were calling on bad calls and all this stuff and eat said you know said tom ah the difference in
success and failure life is not the things around you it's the choices you make it but things around you and you can blame everybody else for your problems but in doing so you
give away control of your light and i think that's the the accountability is you that your talking about you know is that there is a certainly freedom in discipline there's also
freedom in accountability i think because when you like you say you know it when sky ye lots of people made a lot of mistakes but why the way i was in charge and so on on the
oldness really on me and and i find that when i when i practised taking in um when i practised a taking responsibility first some of the bad things that really weren't my fault a
ananias doing that it it freeze me up i think to let you know to loafer if yeh that's actually interesting port because sometimes people they they they hear of like to read the
book extreme ownership that we wrote in the negociate one sip of the promising then in betagged guy you right they go oh you don't pay these stakes happen it's my fault you know
so let's get him fixed and actually doesn't work i actually an end and when i say hey there is all these mistakes that were made on the battle field and different people made
actual mistake they made mistakes the the day we had that blow unbothered was other people that made mistakes one i'm saying isn't like athos were my mistakes he it's my fault
moneron is actually truthfully those mistakes were things that i should have foreseen that i should have understood better than i should have planned better that i should have
trained guy's better for that they there they they made the mistake but the root problem of that mistake is my fault it's not just saying ay my bosatsu know oh ye that was my
faninal is my father i have discoverin to where people say o what if i do what i do i tell my employees o guys it was my fault and then my employer say yet that's right it was
your fault and if people don't know wot to do and i said well it is your fantaisian should i'm not saying this so that it makes people not look at you lamanon esoon says if i say
charlie we screwed up his mission it was my fault you go that's right it was your fault i don't go no one was on the nodorata not awork say charlie i was the command of the
mission i think give you enough information to i didn't didinge your plan while nogicdi you the training that you need it on he give you the sport that you needed that was my
fault that is what and here is what i'm going to do the fixins i look you in say hey this is my fault at this happen at you said you're right it was i got exactly these are the
things i'm going to do to fix it here's were way rotted this from now on her some procedures order a putting place of it does doesn't happen so yes extreme ownership is not by any
stretch unstate path the inot in fact when you take onerous at the hatch i am terlaner in your nathanielson way to get out is to find solutions for the problems and moved forward
so it's an interesting aside rested so that bring me to sevillian life now you've talked above the mission and am having something out in front of it belike i got off back to duty
and nineteen forty eight june exactly two years before coretorto and uh my father law who is actually became almost like a father to me weinheim with the married for three years
and now oh he was eveningall in the paper into straits president of the break payin a restrainer here in los angeles as if he had sold the company to cromer back and his best
friend as to richard micdonald to his sueciae president of chromatic and uh between the two oboney despond this little paper company and ah there gannata care of their son in laws
and son and so ah hotion got off acted duty and as an engineer in the army of before or before i did so he arrived at the paper company may be a faloer before i did and am i had
put my all money i had into this content before well i was still on active duty so am i came home in june forty eight and it's fourthajuly coming up in the in my father loike down
revive three spilin suits and all of a sudden in the civilian and i'm going to go work for this little company and dicendome rerunning recomencar he was very youler but we had a
partner in this company and so i go down and i go to work bonhomet nicely lined minded they put me in charge of the operation the plan offers so now i'm the sevillian and i'm
working hard and it goes for about three months in a night begin to notice that we get em orderin in we boatie we had made fifty in foine were making paper napkins and shelf paper
and all these little items we were we was called a paper converted and so am i noticed in running the plant that we gideon and i'd look at the end and tory and we had so much
paper back in the inventory and i gebakken weadin so now what's wrong and so we had a little beating in each siebleben er take in in and try and see what's in the back of the
plant there and a turn out that our partner who actually had control of the company a was deathly afraid to admit that he had been losing money and he wasn't dishonest anything he
just didn't want to admit it and so to cover the losses to a place them in torso now we have this big meeting of ninety days into being a civilian and retake the end antoine at
all this up and dick mc donald and i oh crowner about twenty thousand dollars the nineteen forty eight and lucifer you twenty thousand dollars is one hell of a lot out of money
and i as when the house would cost what five hundred two thousand dollars to a half heillis so no water we do um well the person we do is oh well in welcome it business world
there was an isherwood that we better do something and our father my father law in a wretched macdonald's father said well what are you going to do well the first thing we had to
do as you had to go up and talk to crowns on a back and sam francisco and so our horrid that i had to buy a top coat and a half cautionin go to san francisco on a business of
meeting without having a hat and a topic and so lead goongoonteh train and we held a sanfrancisco on were plotting holway up their of water we goin to tell him and no idea and got
off to the train of the station of their delicacy he did onosander straight to the big beautiful buildings was crowned in worn my hat my new top coat and i'm going to see in
mister ellerbach himself and just as i walked in the front door some o them consolable girl right down across my brisingamene the worringer can't be any worse and in her hand now
at a like to go well we had our men with sons mister zoller back and he was very very gracious how he saw he said was what he gonna pay us the onabasha herewith so i so i wore on
to work on it and we did we work very hard for about two years when we finally begin to make some money and get the head and um corea started twenty fifth of jet and a beout a
week later the fellow walked into our office and he said we have a problem and the unforeseen and he said you know we have we have to go up our supplies and one thing that we just
can't seem to solve is tonatiah is a little packet dilatation for the little spape round it truth and so say we got one machine of long stow one of the paper companies in he said
we got that machine working on twenty four hours a day seven days a week and we're not getting enough for a teetotum into vicarages what can you do i don't know how in the hedion
us but the way and so we severally he took a look at it and we figured that we could go to crowns auerback and get in her fold tissue paper and you could sit down and you could
flick twenty sheets of a pinafore make two colds in it and then we had to have a tube and so are supertense went out and we bought a nickel a middle wishing the madedita pack
roadless worth a nickle's a two twenty do we made the two and we cut it in half now we got a tube to put the twenty sheets in and so of i set down for about an hour and it folded
paper and they timed the and they figured in his brougham way if if i can do it that much in in an hour then a young lady could do it so we hired about the fifty dousand we put
for them to work and they can these little toil entitate footnote two on it and throw it in the box we put em on piece work and no they were doing very well in fact we were out
producing stratius shine in almost immediately and these little gals down to east los angeles were making more money than anybody elation on peacelord and so everything's going
great remaking money where can off the balance of the plenteous and do we otasite and am the guy walked into the office to came into my office as you know he said to beguest on
here and he had some amoeba and he said done to not like to see your operation so we took him out and planting she picked up some of these tubes and he looked at him took him
apart contains in front of me and they were all perfect he he said dam above i got something to show you how he pulls his little notes out and he said his reason and pure as what
no written at hand writing in this tobe and these young ladies had been riding these little notes in putting him inside the the toe of the tissue and they left nothing to your
imagination a hawaiian can you imagine some i and a fox hole in the rain taking the support and reading this note houseworker we going to do to what we do we owe dispetals not
talking with glasslike on doing a good house to be a moral felony way that's how we paid off the twenty seasonable that two years a trying to pay that all that military training
that i had really disaster helpful must be amusin somewhere this looking for those two to you now i have one in valiant and it's not neriglissoor picked it up after it must have
been from the bit mam ma they were they picked it up more producing an so i just give one of my desk and as a reminder but that asked eisenhagen a mission i i i got a mission will
quickly and it's hot there was a very discouraging one to think of on twenty thousand dollars from nowell over twice what i paid for my house on a adaiah er and go in for about
the hours and forty five minutes at atisara up this run a car got in in else have you said i think that i now okay do you have any thing to add he had new oh when i lived in
honolulu i had a most scooters well really crashed it did i break my late teocreno irebu the akinetos you yes why you feel so like free with it and you are to ansina be caroline
who loaferin holloing everywhere eh yes yes oh that that's it thank you both very very much these pride to be within it on trapassar anything else you want to be you an say i
ain't leave covered it all really grave and with you guys you know i think that is the transfer of our not necessarily are knowledge but our unworried by just the philosophy you
know the welcoming in the gives it ah it it stands the test of time i think and will continue to the span the test of time to the accountability issue oh that face your fears
issue the making choices issue the runefal that to blame other people her problems you know take takenomo life and in that not just a military thing i think it's true with the
with their kids and its truth students and politicians and all all manners of our society is i think neediest in holoaophotal a grief loreto the moving for you know meeting trial
and what a wonderful sport person he is so he actually a drome and door took position i had the talk and fun of the crowd of citians try to get in first because i i don't want to
follow it a be walking on its wall welbekomin to talk to but i would love to be able to reach some of the edouardo bresume of these young people who who not that there disease not
thinking the way i think but i think there musing something there muther losing something that this great country has given to a nawful lot of people and a i am i i feel that i'd
like to reach some of my can't i think you're reaching him i think tralles reaching him here you at her your reaching him but ah the so much we could say and how my granddaughter
just a graduated to you niversity of michigan for years and it's for tyler school and we we fail on a money in our sender kids to school sometimes say they gets along for an
eastington maybe they not maybe they're right but on will think so and so i think the work you're doing and charles only in the three of you joined a is so so important
symperthetic well obviously thank you for coming for common on the show both of you it's it's such an honor to be sitting here with you guys and and also we wouldn't be sitting
here if you wasn't you know for for men like you that stood up and and fought and that's why we're here nath we have the freedom to be here to do this and the freedom to try and
pass that information on so people understand what kind of sacrifices were made so that we can live in this amazing country with the incredible amount of opportunity to do just
about anything you want and whether that's take care of your family or go out and build some kind of a corporate empire you can do it here and you can be happy in any one of those
categories and its amazing sir tank you for coming on and again i think if it wasn't for generations of men like you answering the call to fight then are great nation would have
perished long ago and it would have perished to cyrene and it would have perished to darkness but because of you and men like you we do live in freedom and we provide he and light
to the world so fine you both for giving that to us so we wrapped up with charlie plum and with jim conklin in anger i got a little off off track at the end here i know that we
were going to mention at least some social media and charlie plums information i failed to do that were not back in the studio to do that right now so if anybody wants to link up
with captain charlie plum you can find him and twitter he is at captain capped clung plum the sea a p k p l u m b that's on twitter he's also charley plum on face book or you can
go to charley plumb dot com if you want to get in touch with him also if you do want to find either myself or echecrates you can find our also an twere on in stagra and also on
the face booky you could find us there echoed chechelle and i iman jaca willing and if you want to support this pocketmoney echo how can we do that in wake titre tried to for gin
or gin men do come meannesses origin men dotcom good stuff gear all made in america from the cotton the actual rock caught on to the material he make it althea into what surspend
gaze gether flagship candidates yes yes the origin of origin is to make guidoguerra ye but now we're making all kinds of onandagas in a well the website checked those sons up come
fresh and dear also yenadisse guards yet compercations gear are we calling the rascarse sion the attorno you were half that went out yes compression gear sort of sounds all
technical rascar store reality this inari in the surfing situation the yet the boat whatever you like to what we mean yes you know what work coming from all not one altimeter yet
it is also super crill that's dunklespiel that's out you were in mean and then you click on the labs raight hereat nor tabs when they got a little bar you you'll see it yefter
good orangeman or condone bunch of people pre ordinate forded it the last they should start aladdin the mail there getting at people have it now all day okay and they look and
after want more you can get it there i enjoin warfare that's a good one too so if you got this blame you got the trotte double you know situation that's ultimately the kid right
the joint maintenance excellent kid that's ye form and in yet like i said gieranger all kinds of colstaff just coin there and not to that's a good way to support all so fitness
geer kettle bells you know how like you mention this and i naposeo a little instant video of me o o you know you said a random yearning through the holidays was a give you cried
he i was a very good instigation i isolate actually that is exactly it what that was it was when you said you are keep my oinos to snatch yeah just untie cleaning your yet for the
fontenoy walked by it i noticed it on in it ye that they was calling you off yes prosodical out who now but i will aid me it now that i have like the whole sad pretty much camp
where wolf gorilla sidney to put big foot ninety pounds there all out there right and you oright where you were i may thatdo i feel the same way as you when i walk by e just you
kind of want to and that's good for you yes unless you're all super cold and stiff and then you want to grab that did ninety pole that's not good tollerate ye ye your stiff you
anyway point there being a i digress em i get my cattle beltram on it so get above a cool of course i'm not going to go into a whole kettlewell thing no not going to but if you
want the cooler cat of hell that kettlewell's see artistic ones i like one once broomed where wollorin is my favorite one still he can get the regans do on a also a bunch of the
stuff may sit down a rope like any kind of canoe functional strain is withington stuff functional ye as functional and i i guess it were his fitness aniline that word that that's
why i was kind of andalusia she onion training i guess hard coronal training yeah there is some cool to on their and all enfolding a tent you know on it dooms last jacotot's good
way to support also when you buy a book including the not limited to charley plums will jousting to the website charley plums book is called i am no hero right years going not a
here i'm now here i go to jocko podcast dot com ye ter that book actually get it from challcuchima okay that's the best prestige that ock okay actually you know i am in a lincoln
to charley puff de coon aloose very a'goin to do so numberless gioja will pages dot com go to the book section boom click through their when you get your books is a good way to
support brings it amazon and and er to do it ahoy you sir could like it let as anne dot tam here your phones sir armstrong bought something big aforehan alone more rephotographed
along lower definitely along quick ear for ten retepora very good way also subscribed to the pope gas on it een teacher goal play and all other pot cast providing platforms seemed
obvious but an that's a good way also unett to exerts on their put one out the other day a good one am very sharable but none the less though i subscribed to the tub it that's a
good way to support you get other stuff on top of the video verein of this potaters and how should say other creator short films it by one echo charles sir with people that we
know acting in them yes sometimes sees some do you there anyway yeah you topography eaten as a good way also joculator called jocatore jock stood out come there are some good sure
sinner literally verely corliss good backwards anyway oh i'm not saying a by something just goin there check out stuff if you like the stuff on there get something this stuff
women sure patches rash bards who do us any day now he hides the more their heavier comes and impaired eavy yes there was his a thing but the heaviest so i'm going to rove the
option you know palliser is one that's like too heavy in a lixusmatic in you there lie never been to manette teahouse had been to me overenthusiastic yet now i get it oh but it is
so i'm convinced for whatever that's worth i'm convinced this is zapote one protest that lay well we meaning every one that listens to this i and myself we will be the judge of
that i trestle out from the north of america or canada sir the northern ridge i do i got you and i i'm omination yet just come me the feet back all her we will i also
psychological warfare on your jury flash campaign against weakness if you run into those days where you're not feeling like it and that's affecting you where you're led to make or
potentially make the decision to slack it the smooth skipped the work out sheet on the diet procrastinate more or other forms of weakness listen to this album with tracks jocteleg
you pragmatically why you shouldn't give in to those weaknesses results do not vary under per cent success orate on that one in my experience pelagie werper on i tones amazonic
anywhere worthy so impetration very active good with support is long also on amazon jocko white tea you can get that through amazon you just search jack a white tea then you order
it and the drink it and the start throwing sings around and smashing everything around you that's where it does no big deal be prepared do have some books there too you can get em
way the warrior kid that's kidalick extreme ownership that abolishin dispensed field manual that comes out octoberfest it's it's a book about getting after it folacher ward now
what's it resting but this is the book is the book is not going to be available though audible itself this going to be available through m p three platforms such as i does gugley
on other platforms are there am ammian prime vicesima on so that's what's going to be ill the reason we did that is that the best we could instead of just make it a big long molti
or drone of talking it's caught up as an album with tracks to her seems to be the way that we can noise it for just quick lessening for almost like you use psychological or from
ye and if it's a man you will that in right here election a story is not as avery you know is not a story yet there's legs wore or did i mean this would go freedom feel made is
not a story it a field man you sir instructions so you can get that there for your business alon front we worship the lay fabji done dave berth if you want to get tied into that
if you want to come out and work with your company in for and i shall on front do come so that is that these are all great ways to your support this pot gas we preciate it and
thanks to every one for your support and mostly for listening to the podcast especially those that are out there in uniform that provide the freedom of protection that we will
never take for granted freedom that men like charley plum and jim conkle fought and sacrificed to a hold for us in i would simply ask every one to make something out of the
freedom that you have don't waste it in the way that you get the most out of your freedom of the hat what way that is the way you get the most out of your freedom is discipline
that's how you get the most out of your freedom push yourself hard did things done create and build and make yourself the best you that you can't in everything that you do but
getting out there at getting after it so until next time this was mister jim conkle captain charley plum and echo and jocko on
