this is jacopo cast number ninety seven with a charles and me jackwell giddying ah good evening to the master stone mason in the town of mansfield greetings in god much beloved
parents if my small letter finds you in good health i should be mightily glad what concerns me i am pretty much in health here in the white country will have to die all of hunger
all is burnt and the russian army has carried off all subjects as they had such a fear of us and there is no food to be found because nobody is to be found in any town whatever
house is found it is empty and dark dear parents i have to give news of our last battle as we had already gone hungry for three days and marched day and night at five in the
morning we mark into this battle with the cabbage stump in our stomach and we were in in it until the evening and then we again had nothing and could not eat for tiredness only
cannon fire from morning to evening god has helped me out of the third battels without harm though the bullets hailed down pretty well as if one were to take peas and throw them
at some one but none got me the whole cavalry is lost now i want to write you about the russian town of misery moscow which is seven hours walk long and as wide and the russians
put fire through it for four hours it burned and then it was extinguished and we were stationed before moscow and i don't know whether we are going forward or back i don't know
what to write except that you will shortly see many cripples without arm and leg and so many must die pitifully of hunger and terrible dangers russian appear all the time for the
last battle let a now finally farewell and stay healthy until we speak again many greetings to brothers and sisters brothers in law and sisters in law to the balaneri and all good
friends and acquaintances and i am quite well if only i can live farewell i remain your faithful son until death you on andrea and so napoleon who is often praised it by many
including myself praised as a military genius and he was one of the first military leaders to effectively utilized psychological orferin this included most famously his bulletins
de la grand army which was servauntes at a newspaper that was sent out all the campaigns of france or being in bardon and that was his media to he had control of it and he also
controlled nail that his troops sent home and made sure that it painted a positive picture of what was happening down range and that is where that opening letter came from that it
was actually excerpt of a letter but it was confiscated by the military of the kingdom of west fallen which was a vassal state under the first french empire which was napoleon's
empire and the kingdom of west folio which is a german piece of land and it provided hundreds of thousands of soldiers for the napoleonic wars and when i say provided soldiers as
to say specifically conscripts which are basically slave soldiers you have no choice you will go and fight and overtime was faluten tually conquered by the russians for a period
and then some of the confiscated letters survived and ended up as a stoical documents that explained what was happening on the ground and that's where that letter came from
through old russian files where they had they had this letter and again we may a habit of glorifying the boon and i have done it right here on this pot cast which is actually
pretty substandard beevor for me since i always try to listen to the voice and here the voice and understand a few point of the foot soldier the grunt the front line troops on the
battle field because that is where the fighting takes place those are the men that execute the plans of the general and that is where the wars are excellent and history as a whole
has a tendency to forget about them because generally it's the admirals and the generals that right the memoirs but in this case we are going to hear from one of napoleon's grant
a guy by the name of jacob walter and he is a german conscript who is fighting for france if this is a guy grew up in germany but when germany was became part of and became a
vassal state like a subordinate state of the empire france then he ended a fighting for france but even more and you're going a find the out quickly he was fighting for his own
survival so let's go to this book the book is called the diary of an appoloni foot soldier by jacob walter and here go in the year eighteen o six i was drafted with many of my
comrades in the military service in the conscription at that time and was assigned to the regiment of romage in the fall i traveled with the regiment to prussia in the campaign
which emperor napoleon with the princes then his allies was conducting at that time against prussia and this is interesting pasotrote on this poncaser the battle of jena and what
happened at the battle of genante the bangeni that the prussian army was defeated pretty savagely by napoleon army and that made them make some major adjustments to the way they
ran things and that was kind beginning of decentralized command from the german perspective but this guy walter jacob walter was actually there now this is what's interesting in a
a a go take some time to paint this picture of the wavy soldiers operated back then first of all they marched just about everywhere and some oesteron horses but sometimes they but
most of the time they marched and when they marched what they would do is just wherever they were whatever village they were in they would go in an get orders in that village they
go and they were here where we stand your house and we'd get fed and that's what they did and people allowed them to do it i mean bunch of people with guns sharply or else and say
we want food and beds you you know these people gave them what they want it sometimes willingly depending when they were travelling out of their own country so when they are in
germany there or or in there wet follette locals as they were leaving the local would give em a will support you see military guy will support you then when they got into enemy
territory they would be after me more forceful for years how it starts off with him marching we were given good quarters everywhere which kept me always healthy and cheerful in
spite of vic ontinu ous marching furthermore is only nineteen years old a fact which caused me frequently to participate in thoughtless in dangerous and reprises i think he was
getting after young nineteen year old man he and as the nother thing is in resting so this guy these conscripts they weren't they weren't permanent soldiers they were more like
reserves where they would go and fight and when the war was over they go back home and continue with whatever their job was and so that's what happened to him he you know get
tastes only nineteen years old boom you're going to go fight he says okay starts going in marching back to the book in this city it happened in my quarter that a comrade wanted to
force the landlord to sing however he refused to do so sitting the whole night on a bench near the stove weeping since this man could not sing because of his sore sorrow soldier
home wanted to frighten him took his rifle cocked the hammer and shot the bullet passed by me and another soldier and lodged in the wall i wanted to mention this in order show how
the soldiers were running wild at that time so like i said when they were in their own country that get good support and ever would take care from but then the first they got into
other countries they had to use force to spy who was in the village of a spy who was a village smith was brought before the guard house he had letters and orders to tell prussians
of our strength in man power he was laid on a bench and whipped by two or three corporate two men had to hold his feet and to his head his leather breeches were stretched out and
water poured on them and then he received about a hundred and fifty blows at last he could no longer speak because he was half dead after this experience the smith was taking to
the threshing floor and shot blows with clubs also were heaped upon many innocent people in this city so these gayer things turned bad real quick things turned bad real quick in
and i came in imagines days where there is a lot less accountability and you have nineteen year old soldiers coming into towns and just basically doing whatever they want back the
book finally when light fire now they're getting into a in attack situation finally when light firing began upon the outpost we were commanded to attack by waiting through the
rampart ditches with pansies with fascines to tread these in and discrimena the outworks by chopping and shoveling when i stood in the ditch each first soldier had to pull up the
next one with his rifle the ramparts were of sand and every one frequently fell back again because of the attack of the enemy or just because the sliding sand yet in that place
the huge cannibals flew above us thundering so violently that we would have believed the earth would burst to pieces when every one was almost on top of the earth work the
prussians were slaughtered with great vigor and the rest took flight into the gate then we too wanted a gain possession of the gateway in order to enter the city but at this
critical time any of these prussians were shot along with our men by small and large guns and the gate was closed since all sorts of shells and rockets broke out of the fortress
like a cloud burst we had to take flight those who meanwhile were scrambling up the outworks had to jump from the fortress into the moat along with their prisoners and all the
rest had to do likewise during this retreat many fell on bayonets many drowned and many of us were also brought into the fortresses prisoners and sent away to danzig by sea now
it's interesting this guy the way he writes is very matter of fact as to what happens and again the a relatively evitata you to through three campaigns this is the first one the
last one is the campaign in the russian the famous napoleon's famous march into russia to train take russia at an every one knows how that story and it's not good but this first
one is like i said against the prussians back to the book one morning the prussians surprised the polish camp from the sea with their ships as it happened before easter the cannon
fire on the poles was so heavy that they could not withdraw fast enough their cannon balls also travelled more than half again as far toward our camp as all balls did across the
water since the surrounding swamps were frozen and the balls could roll along on ice so fast that one ball took off the feet and legs of ten or twelve men frequently both feet of
the same man during this blockade the prussians frequently made attacks although every time with great losses on the nightmare that is your standing on frozen swamps and his
cannonballs are being fired at at a really low angle and just scream icons the ice and take it out ten to twelve guys legs feet a going back to book when i rived in this field i
hastened to look for my brother who is in the liembra amen here we met embraced in greeting one another and joy filled her heart they took me into his barracks and gave me
trousers shirts and several other pieces of clothing which i needed since as if i as i have already said i lost almost everything at coburg so he's out there and his brothers also
out there fighting and then he happened to running into each other from time to time back the book while the enemy had to defend themselves around and in the crowded part of the
city a terrible shelling of light and heavy artillery broken upon us and all of us had to abandon the positions we had taken large mines were exploded in the breastwork and
everywhere their few rockets so called pitch rings which could be put out only with small boxes as they fell on the ground if any one would or could be an onlooker at frightful
explosions he could get the finest view at a fortress attack which is more remarkable was the more lamoral sight by far than a battle field the bombs and grenades crisscrossing in
the air in such great numbers all floating like balls of fire in the air and exploding or bursting in the air or on the ground with a small cannon report the slow ascent of each
shell the fast descent often also a collision of them in the air all this is a sight of moving beauty so you get the kind of assent for how much fire power now again you don't
really think of that very often of of how these how these battles would take place and how much fire power there is but there's obviously mass of amount of rocket fire at gernade
canons riffle horrible and that's defers section that first campaign against prusias relatively short the chief victory in that campaign and he goes back like a said he was back
like a reserves to his normal life and when he was back to his normal life survives that way for a while to lives that way for a while and then he gets recall the gin going back
to the book while i was working in various ways to at my trade after the prussian campaign the war with austria broke out in eighteen o nine and i was called into the garrison at
stutgard and what this this one is a little bit more of an insurgency there there putting down the tyrolean insurgents in this battle relatively short but here is where they are
holding up a a fort basically back the book we fire through the loopholes and from the wall with cannon and small guns during the heavy shelling a shot a man in front of the
garden house as he came in a little way forward toward the breast work and aimed into the loophole but after i shot and he suddenly fell several others wandered to carry off this
dead man and as was often done however the more openly it was done the more often other men were hit too finally we fire with cannon throwing projectiles into large and beautiful
garden houses setting them all in flames on the third day the enemy could no longer hold out because the heavier tillery fire and moved back into the mountains so here's a classic
lesson a classic lesson of combat if there's a wounded person you can't run out and get him you have to suppress fire and that's exactly what he say near he shot a guy somebody
came out to try and pull him back he shot that guide to somebody came up he pull them you shoot that person too will you have to do suppresser when someone gets wonted as as hard
it is is to do that that's what you have to do when you say is hard as it is to do that telecaster ends is wounded he you kind of the automatic things to go get a equinata exactly
right done exactly right did to emotional attachment yeena decision that people all most people are are tempted to make hay chocho a mingo save him so run over to save you and i a
shot to and again that campaign you know you could hear the the insurgents go back up in the mountains and he carries on a little bit with that but the focus that i wanted to get
to to day was this campaign in russia so he regaled back the book in the month of january eighteen twelve i was recalled to the garrison of shorn door and they know that they're
going to russia they know that that's where there heading um but they now is going to be tough but he regal back to the book here's ears about their attitude aye and all the
soldiers were very merry always singing and dancing especially since throughout the entire work bird country the carters and eating and drinking were very good but ticularly
because of the large supply of wine so that every one had his field flask voluntarily filled with wine in his pockets with cookies at the time of departure moreover the beautiful
villages on the main river surrounded by vineyards fruit trees and grain fields put everyone in a happy mood about the middle of march the army continued on its way through
saccaboola and mountainous region began the pine trees were especially plentiful so i was also thinking about this urori class guy in germany the in the early eighteen hundreds
your work in your job daytoday until an what you do what are you your let's say you're a man or work or let's say you're a stone layer of a mason of some whatever your job is but
you're working hard you're getting your pay check probitate and then almost untasted how you want to go in a liven ture you're going to get to take what you want to get to go out
you gonna get good food at it you can i can kind of sense that attitude and same thing that happens with military as to day myself included where you know i'm growing up in a
small town and everyone just kind of lives and dies in the small town and all of a sudden there's not parting out and just get after it livinen and see the world they are that
that eosa that now in the navy you know that doing the navy and see the world will he that's sounds go ye and it's kinda what this is here especially this guys who better he's
been through some horse bent or some to fire fights and an obviously seen some significant cases but at the same time he's a veteran net easy come back so he comes back to his you
know like i said i don't know what his civilian job was but he was lay in stones or pound anon and ville sheeping matlo something like that and all of a sudden he you know what we
won't you do go out and live in nice manners that you that you take down or that you you in get quartered in and they're going to beat your great an it continues in back to book
in the city of light sick any one could see what was going to happen since many friends as could slip through came crowding through the gates let sick was packed with soldiers and
i was in quarters with a hundred and fifty men get the landlord to whom we were assigned put us all in one building the former theatre building which was a hundred feet tall a
hundred feet long and sixty feet wide shippers of table stood ready in the hall very beautifully set and loaded with beer brandy butter cheese and white bread after all it sat
down everybody ate and drank while eight servants brought in the war meal which consisted of white soup two kinds of meat and several kinds of vegetables in addition something
cold with sir for desert and drinks were served in abundance throughout the whole afternoon we stayed here two days until the line of march formed by columns and the departure was
ordered so like i said living at the pretty good life back the book and then we went further and came to first and walled a middle side city and branbridge we were still very
lively in this town singing and living cheerfully although we could imagine the unusual campaign before us but every one always believes in and hopes for the best i also looked
after my sabre and made it very sharp at a turners and tempered in fire said it would not break off the march was continued to polenti the village of rapin where the use of german
language stops and the manners in cultures made a strange impression it was the month of may and the air scorneth with may bugs so that amazingly so amazingly that it was hard to
keep your eyes open in the evening the buds were so very thick that they darkened the atmosphere and every one was busy shaking them out of their face and hair here it became
necessary for each person to seek and cook his own provisions although requisitioning was forbidden to you aretalogi gout in the stake stuff still but you can see things are
starting to get leaner however every one still had his full strength and courage would still alive and every soldier but from day to day privation and hunger increased and it
became necessary for the regiment to requisition and slaughter live socks or that men could have some meat in addition to the potatoes and grants which they found here and there
red was rare and there is nothing at hand to buy so again you can see as they moved as they moved to the east towards russia from germany through poland there's food is becoming
less and anheale t in january if you remember it so now it's may so the weather's actually even the less a lot of bugs but the weather is hot which the russian campaign the
there's there's one of the best offences that russ asked me if may be the best defense a russian has not the rust from winter but right now it's spring the spring time and polenti
not that bad yet and back to the book now the orders now the orders let us from fun to merriam pole the march went through sea burg the roads were sandy and dust covered a dust
covered our clothing and you're going to see how very quickly things turn for these soldiers back to look daily the hardships increased and there was no hope of bread my colonel
spoke to us once and said that we could hope for no more bread and to we crossed the enemy border the most any one might still get was a little lean beef and hunger made it
necessary to dig up dig up the fields for the potatoes already sprouting which were however very sweet and almost inedible in entervals heard everywhere that several men had
already shot themselves because of hardship in particular and officer had caught his own throat on that very same day so again very nursing ly he writes his sort of matter of fact
but we've already have people that are starving and their starving their marching and it's it bad it's bad enough that beworkin themselves yet can see that that lake that came out
of nowhere there he and i i i skipped some pages but i didn't skip at many pages i didn't skip that many pages it it went pretty quick from from pretty decent living it's it's too
pages it's through sorry it three pages in the book from pretty decent living singing and living cheerfully to we at officers that are cutting their own throats yea this whole
campaign takes place in less than a year from january there back by december so that they haven't by the way what was interesting they haven't met the enemy yet right that that's
why that's the one of benisoned this as you listen to it you think they haven't even met the enemy yet they are just already already people are dying already people are killing
themselves yet and on an ill how much this he talks about this but he he says because of hardship like what just detaching more margin and starving being cold being uncomfortable
privation yes i'm free street of got to man yet and and and your your light at the end of the tunnel is combatiant russian winter in going back to the book we believed that the
russians who had wait a of sorry back the book um finally we came to the memoriter where the russian border was we believe that the russians would wait on the other side of the
bank an attack but nothing happened bonaparte upon the high points held by russian with a few cannon and sent his cavalry across the water the russians however withdrew after a
for after a short encounter and this is this is is so cool to hear this because this is the russian defensive tactic you hold over you don't hold the wine you all the line of a
little bit and then you and then you retreat and you takes you you you you inflicted damage on the enemy on the invaders unfortin damage on them and then you retreat and then they
when the enemy attack when the invaders attack again you flixton to image and then you were treat and you're just drawing them in and drawing them deeper and deeper and deeper
into russia and what they didn't expect what they didn't expect was that what the russians did was very smart when they retreated before they retreated they destroyed everything
they burned the houses they they killed the live stock if they couldn't take it with them they dug the fields up so there was no food as that was the standard the stand at us as
an army as a soldier in this time you will you live off a land there was the oudn't need a supply chain and just lived off the land o kay we got will find some bobonne and that's
to be or dinner or will dig up some some crops that are well we find and that's what will eat oh and we for shelter we need to carry a shelter with us we'll distant houses so the
russians very smart they destroyed all that and the french were not expecting this tactic and it was very very effective back to book on june twenty fifth army went over the
bridges we now believed that once in russia we need do nothing but for it which however proved to be an illusion the town of pony man was already stripped before we could enter
and so were all the villages so they they thought they might be living high on the hog but didn't happen back through book here and there a hog ran around and then was beaten to
death with clubs chop with sabres and stated van ats and often ten often still living it would be cut and torn to pieces several times i succeeded in cutting off something but i
have the sheet and eat it on cooked since my hunger could not wait for a chance to boil the meat the worst torture was the march because the closed ranks forced all to go and call
him the heat and dust flared up into her eyes as if from smoking coal heaps the hardship was doubled by the continual halting of troops whenever we came to a swamper a narrow road
often one had to stand for half an hour then another such period we spent catching up and drudging away without food or water so this is this is something that anybody that's done
any kind of force red march in the military cantapresto you come to some kind of a choke point like what say you got people walking down a road and there let's say ten or fifteen
guys at breast and just marching in walking and you get to something worth a joke point so now all of a sudden on me three if etapam only three people can go across this walking
bridge a dime so that means everybody that gets their hestor well the people that got there first when they get together side they keep that pace going so by the time you at the
end of the tail an hour later or half an hour later when you get across you got a down run to catch back up and so it's just it's it's it's painful and of course on top of that
you have the fact that these guys have no water or food back the book during the third night a halt was made in a field which was trampled into a swamp here we were ordered to
camp in to make fire since then since neither village nor force could be seen and the rain continued without end you can imagine in what a half known condition every one stood
there what could we do there was nothing that we could do but stack rifles in permids and keep moving in order not to freeze so i just went for in a day when from hot and this
happened out the desert to its hot and then all of a sudden i time your freezing yet and he's guys are big get told the villeforts what there's no wood everything had been burned
there all they could do estaters back to book we had to march further toward this now where we arrived in the middle of july the men were growing weaker and weaker every day and
the companies smaller and smaller the march was kept up day and night one man after another stretched himself half dead upon the ground most of them died a few hours later several
however suddenly fell to the ground dead the chief cause of this was thirst for in the most districts there was no drinking water there's no water fit for drinking sat men had to
drink out of ditches in which were lying dead horses and dead men another thing we take for granted these days we ought leums little little filtration pomp you can go to war with
a dead horse in it and you can filter that water out you can put an eye dine pablito and you're going to kill the bacteria and it safe to drink these guys don't have that choice
there you going to drink this disease written water or they are going to die of bideatout now they get to another of pillage in her regolati book in another well plundered village
nothing could be found in the houses and so urged on by a hunger we dug in the ground here i with several others removed a large pile of wood which had probably just been put
there we removed this dugento the ground and found a covered roof of planks there was an opening under this from ten to twelve feet deep inside there were honey jars and wet
covered with straw when we had all this we open the jars and saw solid white substance with the appearance of hard wax there was so hard that one had trouble breaking off a piece
with his sabre but as soon as it was put on the fire at all melted away to very clear honey now i had honey to eat for a week although without bread so they artisanal finding food
that is deeply hidden as a couple other instances where they find food that been hidden by the locals but it's not enough to go round and you camagon how you feel in your entire
diet it is jars of honey an back to the book on the morning of august seventeenth every regiment was set in motion and all advanced in columns against the russians here every
regiment without exception was under fire again and again the troops attempted assault but because of the greater number of the russians we were forced back every time on this day
since their heavy archery stood on high and could hit everything finally by night we had made good our position on the heights overlooking the city and the battle was discontinued
to the attack again and again and again but the enemy has a high ground so they make no progress they take they take a little pause for the night time back to the book the night
time lasted three hours at most with the globe of the sun continuing so as soon as the day broke we marched against the city the river was cowcross below the city the suburbs on
the northern side were stormed set on fire and burned up my company's doctor named stable had his arm shot away in crossing the stream and he died afterward no longer could i pay
attention to my comrades then therefore knew not in what way they perished or were lost every one fired and struck at the enemy in wild madness and none could tell whether he was
in fun in the middle or behind the center of the army finally walk can and balls kept on raining out of the city we stormed it with the help of heavy cannon most of the supporting
piers on the high old city wall on which the russians were defending themselves from the inside were partially destroyed we broke through the gates pressed from all sides against
the city and put the enemy to flight when i entered the city we went toward the cocottes and churches they had many holy images and altars as ours do the only difference was that
there was no holy water so he is the so much fighting going on it so bad he can't even keep track of whose dying and how their dying they don't know where the enemy is eventually
they poled the russian position hard enough with our tillery that they are able to break through and when they get in there then they go to visit the churches and their hoping
that i can find him water but they the russians even took the holy water so there's nothing to drink back to the book we usued in the evening to the former camping ground here one
saw the wounded man being brought together to be operated on in a brick kiln which lay on the heights above the city many arms and legs were amputated in bandaged it all looked
just like a slaughter house on august nineteenth the entire army moved forward and pursued the russians with all speed four or five hours farther up the river another battle
started but the enemy did not hold out long and the march now led towards macheson called the so called holy valley from smolensk to mochester displayed its horrible work of
destruction all the roads sealed and woods lay as though son with people or sees wagons burned villages and cities everything looked like the complete ruin of all that lived in
particular we thought ten dead russians to one of our men although every day are numbers fell off considerably that line hid me pretty hard everything look like the complete ruin
of all that lived and he saying that fever one soldier that they lost their finding head ten dead russians and again at another thing another tactic of the russians their just
gonna draw you in and they've got people got massive numbers of people then there willing to fight in the trition warfare and give up their people as they surrender to does much
damage to the enemy as they can and what they're doing is a spreading out the logistics train they've destroyed the support mechanism that you would use by going eating what food
was in the village they destroyed that they burned at all and so now your logistics train gets completely spread out over these horrible roads and that's how they know that's what
that the russian tactic and then the annan when they once they've done that they wait for winter back to the book in such numbers were the russians lying around that it seemed as
if they were all dead god how i remembered the bread and beer which i had enjoyed at home with such an indifferent pleasure now however i must struggle half wild with the dead and
living how gladly i would i renounced for my whole life the warm food so common at home if i only did not lack good bread and beer now i would not wish it for more all my life but
these were empty helpless thoughts yes the fall of my brothers and sisters so far away added to my pain wherever i looked i saw the soldiers with dead half desperate faces many
cried out in despair if only my mother had not borne me some demoralized men even cursed their parents and their birth the pole back to book on september seventh every car was
assigned its place and the signal to attack was given like thunder bolts the firing began both against and from the enemy the earth was trembling because the cannon fire and the
rain of cannonballs crossed confusedly several entrenchments were storm and taking with terrible sacrifices but the enemy did not move from their place now the two armies moved
more vigorously against one another and the descries and shattering gun fire seemed a hell nine intrenchments were stormed the french threatened to surround the enemy from the
front and finally the enemy gave way within a space of an hour and a half long and wide the ground was covered with people and animals there were groans in wines on all sides and
that ball right there that he talking about on september seventh that is the bloodiest single day of all the napoleonic wars there is about two hundred and fifty thousand men that
attacked and there were seventy thousand casualties in the first day and so i was referred that the balaton with her was sixty thousand casualties in the first twenty four hours
and so here we go that's that seventy thousand in one day back to the book we moved forward and camped by a forest on a height facing moscow there was a wood of green trees here
we not only had nothing to eat but also no water to drink because of the high camp site and the road through the fields was still covered with dead russians and this this is
another addressing point that happened is in this battle is the talebearer everything destroy the fields kill all the live stock or drive them away and and make the people leave
so there's through there is there just bearing wastelands also the governor of moscow he opened up the prison and let all these prisoners out a little as people out of prison just
to just to add to the mayhem now going back to the book napoleon refused that peace treaty proposed to him in that actually that's what he says in the book on that actually not
what happened there was alexander he did accept the piece offering so they got you know he napoleons had we know we made it to moscow do you want to have peace to ashes negative
you know napoleon was probably going to try and bargain for something but he gets told no back to book and the army which it advanced some thirty hours farther had that farther on
had to retreat because the russian army stationed in moldavia was approaching now was october seventeenth and appoline held an army review and announced that a partial for october
eighteenth early in the morning at three o'clock with the warning that whoever should delay one hour would fall into the hands of the enemies so now they connoted right you fought
hard to get here now we're going to retreat leaving the three cock in the morning from moscow the road led south how may low and tore coga here the humanity of the commanders
began to mountains say here the inhumanity of the commanders began to mount the remaining troops weapons were inspected and many who did not have their weapons fairly rust free
got twelve to twenty strokes with the club until they were near desperation needless to say this is not good leadership are you want you people do you want your people to keep
their weapons squared away but if you're actually going to beat them and make them less combat effective you'd better find a better solution for your situation they we go back to
book the enemy attacked us the enemy army behind us shattered all the army corps leaving each of us then without his commanding officer those who were too weak to carry their
weapons or or knapsacks through them away and all the like a crowd of gipsies everything was in confusion and during almost the whole night the fang had to retreat to mothair one
running so as to not fall into the hands of the enemy because of these considerable losses can in munition wagons coaches and baggage wagons by the hundreds had to be thrown into
the water and where that was impossible all wagons were burned not one wheel being permitted to remain whole so now as the retreating they've got so didn't want to leave the stuff
behind so there thrown into rivers and setting the wagons on fire as their retreating in tonal told disrepair and disorganization the fighting the shrieking the firing of large
and small guns hunger and thirst and all conceivable torments increased the never ending confusion indeed even the life seemed to seek supremacy for their number on both officers
and privates was in the fousands in these days it snowed for the first time and the snow remained the cold arrived at the same time too and the freezing of people multiplied the
number of dead no one could walk fifty paces without seeing men stretched out half or completely dead similar situation that military seemed to get into is lack of good winter
clothing i did happens all the time and that's what happens here these gisent prepared for this type esitation or not prepared for the cold the distress mounted higher and higher
and horses were shot and eaten because i could not even get a piece of meat and my hunger came to violent i took along the pot i carried stationed myself beside a horse that was
being shot and caught up the blood from its breast i set this blood on the fire let it coagulate and ate lumps without salt the russians advanced and waited us at mink every one a
hastily fled cannon were thrown into the water the hospitals were nearly all left to the enemy and as was commonly rumoured the hospitals were set of fire and burned with their
inmates all the time the greatest misery fell upon the poor sick who usually had to be thrown from the wagon just to keep us from losing the horses then wagons intirely and who
were left the free left the freeze among the enemies for a lemerer remained lying behind could not hope to be rescued the march had to go on and the striking clubbing and
skirmishing commenced through frightfully that the cry of murder echoed all about the cost iceland upon the army from all sides again and again people died and sometimes froze to
death these were people who pressed towards the fire but were seldom permitted to get there so they died away from the fire and very often they were even converted into cushions
in order that the living would not have to sit in the snow this this this ego situation to were you not only fighting against the enemy but there also the troops are robbing and
fighting each other and in some cases murdering each other and he talks about this and all talk about a little bit more i kind of jumped into them and the fires and what happened
was there so little fuel for the fires that they would form teams of six to eight guys and gather up wood and then that team would sit around the fire and it so cold that if you
are not exercier you're goin to freeze to death but if you didn't participate in helping to build the fire then you don't get to sit next to the fire so if you were too weak if
you were too hungry if you were to thirsty and you couldn't do your terrour load and get fire wood you weren't on be permitted said next to fire which man you've been to sit out
there twenty feet from the fire an you're goin readeth back to the book in every big bivack soldiers who looked like spectres crept around at night the colour of their faces their
house keep breathing and their dull more muttering were horribly evident for wherever they went they remained hopeless then no one allowed these shades and death to drag
themselves to the fire usually six eight or ten of us had to combine to build a fire since no other wood was to be had except rafferties from bone houses or trees lying around
shattered wagons et cetera and without the co operation of the men nothing could be accomplished neither did we dare to fall asleep at the fire at the same time because no one was
safe from stealing and robbery officers were beaten away from the fire just as private work whenever they tried to press forward without merited claim only mutual support still
procured true friendship saying carrymore bernouse doesn't matter feedin put out in build his fire your or going to get close to it when i mentioned very quickly lift and he at
one point he hooks up with a major and the kind of become swim bodies trying to work together and he begot the book we came to a lumber yard and built a fire there when the major
had become somewhat warm his subjects and by subject he's he's referring to life played them with unusual wickedness and for this reason he asked me to kill the tormentors in his
shirt collar i did it but when i had opened his collar his raw flesh showed forth where the greedy beasts had nodded in i had to turn my eyes away with abhorrence and reassure the
master that i saw nothing telling him that my eyes hurt so much from the smoke that i could not see anything these past soever were no less to be found on me thousands of them
however because of my constant restlessness they could not get to the point of forcing me to treat them with flesh so the lies actually eating his friend the major and life are no
gilkison lie the body lies a body like like what kids get you like what your kids give for school on no if your daughter's at it yet but she will loremer back on winchol it be
like in your hair hearer for sir i warn atarsoak of ever seen or i mean i have heard of it yes in actually i re read that section to my wife because my wife like all malms
absolutely despise life yet as when i come home from school at its total nightmare you got a everything is got to get scolastica hers all had crazy long thick hair so it would be
hours of picking though that hair trying to get the wire out when when that would break out but you that's the thing is you have the treatment for ever semyonov you you clean your
clothing that's so it's gone but what happened to you don't do that what happens if you don't do that what happened to the domaine what it happens if you have to wear the same
clothes over and over and over and over getting by the way you can't take the clothes even off because you resideth so what happens you got a nice ittle home for the life and they
start to eat yet you yes and also and so the hale time obviously there retreating ly they been defeated in every retreating his whole time enter still being attacked there still
be attacked by the russians back to the book the russians pressed nearer nearer from every side and the murdering and tormenting seemed about to annihilate every one that day we
expected that every one must be captured killed or thrown into the water every one thought that his last hour come and every one was expecting it and so they there there have cut
a trapped and he's evacuate say he's expected in everyone's dead were all going to die of it from the water and they get to a bridge and actually two bridges one of em gets
destroyed and now there's all these guys trying to get across one bridge to get to safety there being attacked back to the book every one crowded together into a solid mass and
nowhere could one see a way out or means of rescue from morning till night we stood unprotected from cannon balls and grenades which the russian hurled at us from two sides at
each blow from three to five men were struck to the ground and yet known was ill to move a step to get out of the path of the cannonballs only by filling up of the space where a
anabelae room could one make a little progress forward i think that has to be one of the most insane situations that i ever heard of her standing in a mass of people hundreds and
hundreds of people trying to get across a bridge it's very slow movement you have nowhere to hide and the cannibals from two sides that are ripping through the people and the only
progress you make is by stepping on and filling the holes of where these men have gone the ground and died and by the way you're starving thirsty conferdence freezing and this is
always encouraging back to the book of moreover here in this region napoleon had left us and fled with the fresh reserve troops ring home ahead of the army the general cry was
save himself crocan so again myself included we do a lot to glorify napoleon but here is his men are trapped and a fresh group of reserves show up and he hit halidon of there with
the fresh reserves he eventually gets across that bridge and now they're just there just every man from self but it's not really every man from self because they got like up with
a couple of a people to to support each other to protect each other cause it is it's just chaos back to book at had been the fate of many hundreds when they sat down because of
weakness or necessity that their clothing had been brutally torn from them and when they could not defend themselves they froze to death naked so now you have the choice you know
oh i see you you got to stop either your tired or you week or maybe just got a stop and go to the bathroom well i see you if you're in a compromised state and i come over and just
take your clothes from you repoofs you quieus i want to be warm and it's you or me and that the his own tea that's his own teach his own team right there and i just have again
obviously like our ways have to do with these books i mean it goes on and on and on and on brutal brutal back to the book by the end of december we reached the polish border along
the memo river now i was free and left to myself again as soon as i noticed a trail i rode as fast as i could and so now he's got a horse one day along the road it came to a noble
man no woman's manner house at which i asked for bread and obtained not only bread but also butter and brandy for there was a servant there who could speak german and and so
that's it i mean almost as quickly as it all started once he gets back to poland gets a horse and he rides until he finds a nice manner house and also if not really a
concentration of troops any more that are showing up in these towns now it's small groups not like thousands of soldiers are coming in that need to be fed it's dozens at a time
and sir there's actually the food and a necessary means to support small numbers of soldiers that are coming in and so it's i i i i want to say it anticlimactic but it is a little
bit because once he gets back to poland and get a horse it's like it's over and edged to escape from all that pain and misery eventually get to another town i came to ortelsburg
and for the first time was given regular quarters it was just christmas eve a date i would not have known if i had not learned it from the landlord here i also washed myself for
the first time but i could not rid myself of the life we met a column of bavarians who were on root from konigsberg to the gathering place at plock they told us the news that they
were burghers too were gathering in form and that the germans all had permission to go home hence i was on the last to come to fallen them the same night i lodged in a house and
bought some bread and wine for free quarters were not to be thought of one could scarcely creep along the streets on account of the throngs of people early in the morning i
traveled across the bridge and saw with astonishment that the city during this year of war had been developed in two an important fortress however they used only wooden walls and
sand around behind walls i now grew weaker and weaker and only with great exertion that i reached the city here i reached the third convoy of our people and presented myself
immediately to the commander who asked where you from from the army was my answer so you are also one of those moscow bums he retorted then that was my welcome return one of those
moscow bombs so just to explain what those moscow bombs were they started with six hundred and eighty five thousand men and at over four hundred thousand gilt that almost sixty
per cent killed and i think what stillwood what this book gives me is such a classic example really of not only how to act but also how not to act so for one from a leadership
respective keep your people informed of what is happening and that's one thing that struck me about this book of often times he's guess had no idea what was happening what was
going on what was the next move they they did not know what was happening another thing and this is clearly a lesson that we talk about all time is i i got to be on bobus from
napoleon's perspective i thought i could hold his off right but he under me underestimated russian strength he under asked me at the time it would take he underestimated the red
ness of his own troops he underestimated their strategy so again lessonland for the million time be humble and then getting to this this of the justification statement about
moscow bums i think that is a great reminder to treat people with respect and we talked about this i think it was last poast maybe the poncas before the looming you have to
respect people as if you don't know them you can't just give away respect but you treat people with respect because it's you don't know what they've been through you don't know
what struggles dave see how would you know that and so when you throw out things like moscow bum and you don't know that this is a guy that's been actually to hell don't do that
and the last thing you know again to take away from this book for me is to remember it or not just the uinta business world of course remember your front line people remember what
grind there going through remember what it fills like to them to be our majorite or in the factory or on the fort line doing sails remembering what that is but also for every one
remember the actual front line troops the suffering the fear the discomfort the cold and the wet and the hunger remember that reality of war and remember that it impacts those
young soldiers in these young marines remember them because it's really really easy to forget so i think that's all of god from the diary of an appoloni foot soldier pretty
emigree to hear that side of it a totally different from sitting here and reading napoleon's maxims yet eout his wonderful brilliancy bailing on his guyable on his guise oh
freshers or her cool ilius them to get out of here if and you know i i get it i was just reading another book ah i can't reckon figured off copyhead but it was it was talking
about you know as a leader he your spouse to stay alive writing like you can't take on necessary risks as a leader you you you can't be at the front of the assaults you shouldn't
be so one you have to be but you need to stay a lot and so maybe you could give napoleon a little grater for that um but maybe not maybe not too much yet ah though this one time
on sighting where xoranian in none right now in a way because it it sounds up by this that just what you said right and in this coulee what like this seems like what napoleon was
like sinfield i flung jorge is one real scenic disgust a fire breaks out and he oh pushes over an old lady some kids you know take to escape it is get the fire so what after the
fire of the fight there was no fire was just some burn like orders of some man for their clashing home and we like and that's what he says kind of what you just said there you
like i had to lead these people to safety and if you know it all is lost if the lieder dies kind of thing amoosin there one looking out with the asterie browse what you did you
know you step the old lady going out senescals kind of that deal i think that's what napoleon did ye i would tend to agree with you and it's you know and then in the navy the the
captain of the ship goes down with the sheriat least he's the last guy off ye least at a bare minimum he last golf but often dies you goes down with the ship cause trina fight it
and save it the old time ye ye that no pimentel not hanging carried that out but on he came back from this and got exile and everything was you know brisklie was ruined but you
sound like he ruined no hell in more lives than just his own with this experience he whit'ting holy they can't mentioning the life you know yes that's good when they do that
because it really does give you a field of leafy know you know a little thing he at i had big deal i by bitiliashu there bomboost hunger or the coal went dis constantly there
cause you don't really think of that you know edna the firelight and the bombs and then you know those big things yet the all those little things adding up yet cause the life are
constant esaiyen you is that one life does eat janson i don't know too much about wisitive freaked out when they come in the house yet which when you got four kids yet there was
times where we dissathisfide in the house a home in it looked like ah got busters chodowiecki the froont on tea but in a agitatin for these guys yeah yeah he's like to pick up
some of that stuff in all these books what those soldiers are suffering through it you know whether it's job you don't jungle foot foot rot trench foot yea you just your feet are
getting destroyed by the weather and we get the stores on your back is all these things all nestings you like treadmills you remember you stuffing about oh ah the salt stuff on
one yacker the salt crystal forming a yet i ate no one told me about that and i heard you know let of my friends have been to come no one talks about that as you know they were
hot swine for a long period of time with no shower she ate so it's just an usual held to humans aren't you you're not used to that you're not used to you peep aren't used that
were used to shower every day as you know all you fresh marsontine adene if you train in it but you you can't get your silakhor feet right healsome people are barefoot time like
my son yet are for all time he can sprint on jagged rocks with ill effect the tidionte it like tarzan to isom call ye with me i'm all unmelodious usury i try i hard them up when i
can but what i spokeslady a been omerod too much my feet are weak tenbroek ye make on agree when i see my son sprinting across jagged rock as if it's nothing the tough filling now
green that makes me mad i can't even take it either no or a mean you an actor all tough when you're walking i try act like it's not hurting yet what her sea yes i had that to
enoch when i moved here from quay i had that where real were all tough because he you go barefoot for you were lepelletier you go barefoot everyone here is a difference from for
those you don't know how i and listener foot lots but float i were for baalim to yell it is totally different right by a yoke take him off all the time no so it here's to give you
idea of how come and being barefooted on in elementary school i went to school with no shoes on who for and one said anything and if you go to school with us on you take them off
immediately because you go right around and resistance of like that you don't ejecter day that story o my son so my son was homeschool sure an when he was tlascala was he would
serve a lot he even by even by his vandevoort one time he caught his foot on the reef and he came up to the house and my wife says you know i go clean it out put a bandit on a
prancin socinus harness no no i is an i is no she says he go clean that out put a bandit on it and put on some soandso's now although as got dirty he's a no she says hey go and
put a bandit on that clean it off put a bandit on it put on saxon shoes and he is i can't she said lies at i don't have any shoes i have been sandeshove schooled and been a really
long time and since he had had to wear shoots a until the head outgrown as shoes so it had been months isn't he had at chooseable those faces and what you don't know things so so
you after that the it was we added it when i got home i had to histatai get shoes i i why he is he need choose could he cut his flint reef gay will want you get him shoes get some
so yellow so same thing was you barefoot tis a huge is bare for all time and he stood it for a lot done ye ill flatfeet or tough yet so in feet and then now and he come to the
main land where you were shootall the time and we were so then the house and in a hieing and so still you but if you have like a carpet or something like that to feet soft yet he
farmer amwell remember those little things that get in phillalooin or are putting up with himself rintho on a daily basis ye canses like that book escalated quickly with a
hardheaded and i i think i caught every one off guard he again i i like to try and think about the guy the guy back then and there thinking a call you working at my quarter crappy
job i have been then all of a sudden adventure time and good food time why he treated my real time and and then they were old to the russian campaign and it's no no hosomichi do
actually the exact opposite yet one second year eating bread and blunder in the wine over the brandy branded line sees and then the next minute year killing your friend for his
clothes the live ye i didn't cover some of those sections where he's getting robbed they're goin to kill him i mean his old gods you don't work different there's not a little you
know because it's french soldiers and there's some german soldiers that are on the same side but what do you think happens when things go crazy alosin this start formingas rat
they're goin to stay tether eh horrible horrible wealth speaking of crappy jobs yes maybe you could do a crappy job of telling us how we could support this pascattaway i prefer
you that a good job i want to the do my best oh back to that will you were just saying the humour into little gang ye in times of doesn't happen to wife to no on oninaesi kenneth
in the say anne another is moves called the divide i think for the diviner it's like this weird movie and some apocalyptic thing happens in the beginning and every one like reach
in this apartment building reached to the basement where the superintendent or somebody lives and this guy is a a he's like a one of these dooms day properties you know you and
and i think he can as some man who to a manual or some rot a man on enough so they all wornout it's everybody is like you know are a girl with the er her daughter ah you know some
dudes whom you know where other broad cross section of society lackered haven't seen a movie but i know the paumotas but that's what the that's essentially what the movie is
varrit there where everyone's just world just people right we all live in this hiding there all kind of and then they start to just be videntes and groups and they fight and in
the harder stuff gets the more violent maget there they end up like killing each other in the all these ways like certain people at certain assets so they can offer like value to
this group you know kind of thing and it's all within letter becomes the dominant roof the dominant evil group is he is these dustoorie guise i the person who lives is just the
one girl only one gollies yet everyone else die in one way another yea it it's a weird new votary he it me is weirdly cause you don't know like who caused the bomb you know it all
the lottery brontu coracias called the road is a book it's not a move while the accendere is a movie here but you don't know what happened here either just everything is different
now and it's different and gray and dark and everything's dead you nothing living enow plants or living nothing's living in this human kind of wandering and in trying to turn to
survive rebuketh move assentially they just kinda omit all these details like that enemies that's why the movies were but when you think about it that's what the movies about we
should be correct the road on the website for people to oh oh yet see what a long with an ireen a polonaise so people can get a siberut get i donno if a rare book i know where i
got it from joe where ye other somebody mailed it to me which i appreciate if it was you let me know it or i just had it i don't know i don't know where i came from my books or
out of control i know me ye didn't any the billiton tears not to little any more whole support i'll turn my best here could not do a crape job did not do a crape job so forgetful
but origen origen mean not tom that treating be for all the cool origin stuff supplier of yes jocha supplements jocapa crilloire joint warfare to very good essential i would say
essential dear like if you're working out a shell actually somebody asked me yesterday which some one said he on a budget got sore joints creole or joint warfare that's a hard
question that might be the hardest question of god on the part a cause i i honestly i take em both all the time so i don't know which one it is debtor one year i you i recommended
though i said jean for it because i know the joy warfare i have noticed specifically muhlde jacked up and the joint warfare it was like healing so wet that i said ay go the
donator ye lest i start with if you can git both me for sure and i i would say if i can i got to masseuse six months oh cause you shall be a that's jacked up man and you now me or
even say anything i just work around it like for a while i can't do any kipping full of second only do dead hang tulips why it was the same as much shoulder is my shoulder
agonised what i don't know why i am and you don't i would go see sometimes egotisical fair pits and i tryin explain to him what's going on and they they try an overlay there there
there they try overlay their vision of my problem to me the base leonor in not if mekinese that kipping poops would hurt but dead hang polo's wood right why is that makes sense ye
that's what happened that's that's comanded ring damps but i couldn't do ring maculation do because it was injured so um you don't and i i i do as i i montifort out as best i can
you know i for a while i was only doing dead hang poops and so i would do weird thing i do deadandgone i do dead an waited poupican different things to get through it but i still
like to do kipping poops and eventually now i can do mucilagin and i can iteas hurt for that it hurt for i was hurt for about six months but i've been back in the game now for an
don'tknow had you do it how i do what the shoulder in no idea oh yeager use general you said rather the grey gisbert's back meshed aeneian you know how he did it yet opening
wenonah is bad and his wife walked for winterhalter you tell him me an ill laughing and i think he thought he might a thought of like laughing at him like oh you're getting old
kind of thing but i was left in it that a lucination injuring your back really better by laying in bed or on opening a window dagateli people telling you get after it you weren't
bad and yews trying to let cool erindring so journet more comfort more some for the laying the bed as ironical is i i don't even want to onknown what cause i i don't i don't even
say anything with some of gottingen hate it as i hate being entered that it were think too is when you get injured you think that injury it seems like the injuries get a last for
ever the aieways have that feeling like this i just never got to go yeals aino to these incrementa little things but when you get injured if you remember the fact that there's
tiny tiny incremental progress being made and you keep orkanie doing it a venua's going to heal you ll be joyous again yea and you billydou again appreciate that too you know like
when you're out and you like eginete that day when i was fully not injured etseastin go train or not but then when you're in dudeling you do what you can people ask me i don't
time out he what he do you get into doity can't don't the camp that's what i did i could count do my smaldeel i would do ring dapsul do all their outoven other exercise around
muscle up except for muscles fontellis i couldn't do at that time yes now back in the game i can begin big kipping corps or back edecon wore frigot the jack joint warfare the
winged it yep an crooil in an tell you i i think ye i think you should do both that's what that's what my opinion is and that's started for me years ago when i went on crooil and
unclosing contriving an now of course we have it in the glorious supercoolies and you're supporting parast which is contestless a good get that for your joints eh also geese and
rashcality start to git and this i actually this this was going on since zerbinetta gesogen and let me at the time i ll like okinaga origin was one of them but i didn't know as
much about bordereth cool and then the one i saw was like kind o expensive but a galericulum you want a high in one and stuff like that and it was cool but organ has all levels no
actually not sure they don't have all levels with i mean if you want to get a twenty eight dollar gee no cananaean ololei gie ye you can get medium for for ossossane point so
immediate is cause a first year verbolatory dollar yes the ither i have never bellowed esuree i will one for ninety nine dollars and it was yet was really really bad ye and i
don't even know the the bran of you of it had a brat but yet it shrunk to the point where it lay it finor money trunk all all up to my elbow side there that's so come if the next
one i want to say i was a hundred twenty it was like a reader one of these brands out in a free and it was fine all i know the brand i'm not goin to say to hate on it but it to me
its shrunken it wear that cool none the less now that i have all or origin ye have two of them by the way they are way better and i'm not i know a distant you looking over like
just sounds like hole woke got this inlet thing as it is now there it is straight up lay better yes and they have different kinds of weeds or whatever but they have of the end
really the point there is when people asked me and if you're wondering what do you get go on go on the website and you can see whichever you don't like if you if you're like hay i
want hugh cadillac one which i recommend by the says he sextuor or no you just want the regular one they are all good equalled all made in america to be the way and rash gardon
ashgate petissent me three resigned geehosaphat one of the one the american men he merican hand on julian but when did he send you the other one he didn't senator which one does
it has i'll give you him it says it's got the chemical formulation for soda one you have that one the nagaeis it yenowines but yet some good rathgar and they think good to so and
again i i'm not going to say the the brand name but is a very good kind high in combat sports bran rascar geeminently's matter comandante opinion anyway so on my influence i would
but i got some rathgar and as a coolly looked open i only cool but you put it on and it is just didn't work out oikian wear this because just then how it fits and stuff like that
was a baggy that he was bad yet you know i'll be now heard a heritage the u as like as you have a bag you rash card buginese jack insontem he and hester i did antagoras cards
bagooree with that but it was weird because he was begging and certain areas you know oswald on know either way for demadoc it's some cool stuff all so it's made america no big
deal yeah from beginning to end he was the eustons said the whole thing but the actual one of besting about origins made america that's a that's all so alien yet with american
answer well then again out on now think about this what if it was all meenie's know then the legit from from the cocinero all the way to the end product but when you get it the
rasorial bag and ordinary rather no cattivissimo really whereout happened to cars in america and the eighties right people started by a japanese cars cause the american quality
wanted by america with homerical quality wasn't there you at now yes but at that time period eh you you're you're we are few mirror was gonna fall off for the buttery is kind of
like you know a lot of her how to had a friend or something on your self you start like a clothing brand i i remember back when i first start like everyone else kind of like the
thing start a clothing brant sargeant start a clothing in by me i that was kind of like vigilant so ah a lot of people need not aliwal of people but some people may areyou know
then you that that's kind of the the text book process he start your brand you give away in your stuff to keep people and you know hopefully it kind of takes hold in texas so
sometimes i'd get to shore in the gas einer cool for the time they were cold but then when he put on the shirt it doesn't like fit crack or you know cause i only got the blanks
yea they just were like he got a cut her off it is a blank black shirt now you know what's the difference cinating but the sing it there is a difference the one you put it on but
the design costa in but it's nonsense it and its cares so who knows jack but it is a beginning in america from the content anythin probably that is a big deal and that's on top of
the fact that the product is perfection concur also speaking of fitness being fit were we talking about being an not really but you go with it eyes all yes we were almost up
enjoin or for a thing i eraso kettle will men too i think that is just me cause i'm spoiled but the cannibal from on it and you know there's like copy cat brands now they do that
nothing with catbells spaceport coffee cats to artistic i don't bother the the idle in a i don't know if there's their specifically copycat because there is other ones yet
resurreicao one and like this this other ones but if my head was a cattle bell home much where it way but little rallies eighty canowarode heavy one year i saw one that's like
gilmay like it's done or hundred and thirty it's like two hundred something to to that's big yeah than go on some one sent ed to me into it here oh i thought they said to do on
real life alemaeon the mere i by like an ah you know a case o what how i did it was i got the the champ right in like thirty five pounds or to a like debt so i get two of em and
the tonsard ken above so there like stars start lighter and lassoing like thirty five i yet well whenever wait is that too late that lad enough not too light or more peril an i
start it is like this is appropriate and i got to be careful in with this because i had never really done a god it up and you know so stansfeld's like cool formerly a good work
out now some get the bigger ones right so i went up to you there out in the one i wanted so i went all the out to the world of which is like sixteen two pounds sutras sarcanet
with that got good at that bomb so but keep in mind in getting them from on it like i i don't i i have the luxury of giving like be the good one and you know i'm all spoiled so i
unreared like i'm about to say everyone should have the desired one cause it's like cooler and not an all you get kind o you know like when you get like a new wool rash guard as
something with a cool is in on it an not aware it and you are you do you know what i'm saying to charity get that on and get him on his iron a kind of stony or you whatever
ratitswan um yes primevals zambelli and led in bells those of the ones cojones on their too by the way and other fitness stuff interesting fitness duff and up again the kettle
bells i recommend the calves but like me start light don't swing in and take your shandeleery carter self up yeah there's omteoni involved yet and you don't recognize the moment
to move swinging a cattle dallas a real thing yet and then it's only was thirty five pounds in your case bonyon it to the top of antinous stop that thing is not wantonly five
palthry five pounds of marit's got momentum yes and then when you scoff said he refugees so you you know the one where it's like the riles nitetis it not a snatch but the clean
the one you go up and either i call a rat to libretto even that i've seen it done so like i can do thou this you it light but i'm doing it wrong un like slipping slipping it up or
land on the back of my wrist and then it like pulls my shoulders back o my reader do this is a i just gotta use but then i looked it up on you to the actual pixie and then o my
all kay you don't i'm what ship my to feel the day we fell in front at soweth the caneville the life i don't know i did i just like lifted a really hard case is i want from the
picking it from the fork take up to the to the position to start squatting and i like did it so hard that i have my front tooth ye you edisto rather to think yet they can mendjus
be careful that's the point in it on a dotcoms lashed jocko cacama those coins they are the regular ones too but on a norman won't you have the designing when you can't go back
might opinion not that even basis for comparison cause i've never had a long ones but i've seen him in other jim you've done before and footing i pinion also if you want to get
this book be diary of napoleon a politic foot soldier very go or any book said chocolata about or rights of ther by the awe have direct lying to all these books per episode on a
website dalmaticum a book the book sect section its books from that past i think that's what colin for their quick to there not only is it organizing in find the crack book that
you're looking for its supports posca or if you do any nether shopping that day or that moment whatever boom carry on good way to support also subscribed to the pot cast an i done
school place ditcher all these pod casting providing platforms and you too by the way you too on top of the video version of this pot cast as we all know we have little exert you
can share so you don't have to see the whole thing or it's just more of a cancellatino what your share what else should we put on you to what a one i see her suffer you to go
having i could do more frequently than you bell actually maybe not because they do it three times a week if you cannot be poterloo gotten into a good routine monday wednesday
friday i'll look into that for the most part okay i still think a boy i should do something only something like what can you do live on you too yes i do that ye adonai never done
it before but gorontalo life ye ye ye do blithesomeness of scribe to the you do dis some mihailo delitescent that's a little but on that may be not as often but if you want to see
some behind the curtain right that oraison behind the scenes you want to hear me sawyer he apparently i do olifants on the skinny knees her pony asked sir i'll storyteller to day
pre recording to day or well i for your worry talking about but is something that made me feel the urge to wear something more what was it i know it not but yet think of the check
to lead it see how i'll get good ovid ex ex or raged sure not ex ray edonian fully that's like now to be in what not they and what not sure that albion enough love free not oh all
so so yet left you to beat time suspend if you have an already if sandy to sing the fagoo way to support also jocando called jocatore god a jackal stored out come make sense
ratha's where you can get sure or shirt you know the vicaress read em on the stuff some who ones on there m looloo at those and if you want something yet something welcoom en
stuff on there for the lady drew her up there or the guys on now your wife daughter sister ma'am bon they've buried me up isaiae one tom suretta you got a check a worrisome yep oh
the patches on there who does the head meroes i got em derives the no lifering at all he weary gianantonio seek under present over that okay for unheavened by new england for
noontide yes minnesota for minnesota your cargo yelp michigan all the michigan canadien you're up there some one just wear that just that's where you were i that's all i used to
hear when i was a kid i from like november until march do ye the heavy heritage yet one can't rely not the hoyt you made last year to coives and but that you in the coerule the
atlantis enisling like teaneans conversion a thing was too life for so countenances maybe helsingoeer looking forward to heavy yet haven't set in meslin there other stuff tickut
cockles door stop come that's a good way to support hat too right hat youse hats and yet but he yea haliotidae that's a for the people no but i need had to heathersham there oh it
yet you need have school octoroon cacoethes also psychological the sinaitic al war for good way to support yourself the we help yourself good wi a spot yourself on your journey
from comeback to journeying er any though on your journey slash campaign against weakness like you now you're on the programme now you waking up early now you're working i got a
work out program five days i don't know the nosering used the word program distressing a late and the delton commander setstone back in the day day like asked me for a like what i
did for work out he and i wrote out my work out and actually loosely therein verein the distance trempeleau is but when i gave it to him it is said at the top of the thing said
the program he the hea actuarially liked that expression and a lever it's like one lie thing you know how you say a discipline will not allow that the hall say am on the program
he i don't be hornin program i what are you in a monogram e exactly the togral right so if you're on the program which really life is i should be on the program really if you're
not you dislike what you're like short turn you're not on the clamant know that ye yes it's that and sometimes you don't even realize that you're not on the program i think that's
the problem you don't even realize you're not on the program you have wiley never been on the program then rang now that you're not on it yet would it wouldn't dayall it like in
in unconsciously come incompetent as something that you know yes all the things all the psychological step in learning onontewa if you don't know you're not on the program you
even know what you don't know kind of thing on i can think anyway ones back to the program if you're on the program but you experience those days to moments of weakness and you
want jouait you through him help you throw my little spot you not take over but as the spot it listened to psychological for you moment a weakness and he goes by situation right
wanamee's like waking up wonders the firing work out one is procrastination once for all these what is this an it's an album with tracks each track is for each weakness say you
may metacom across that's good or so as we got into it in and that a lot of people like that cowboys and so when dispensed om feels manual was being created tu the the normal
optionists books on audible dotcom and then they put together the book with chapters that you can listen to through the arbat very confined to that is so for the field manuel i i
the way the field man knows written it's not written like a book it's more like an album yet that you need to use with traces it anyway to make a long story short we are going to
make another psychological warfare albeit in the mean time we put out disentis freedom feel manual which is the book that just came out and if you're looking for an audible
version of that you have to go to i tunes amazonic who copley everywhere parlors that lanigan three tracks atoms with tracks and that's where you can get this line freedom feel
manual audivero and that daun makes a lot more sense though with with it this way all for sure to cause it is like a manual you know how like you have anathoth was i didn't want
to put it on an audible book the audible format because then people can't put it on their alarmclock they can't they can't just jump through to listen that track they can't put
into their play list while their working out so therefore not use not not good not as oleson are not going to sell as many because when it's link right there on the web site on a
mason people can let grit to it so were not going to sell many but it's better anyway doesn't matter i other i'd rather put out a good product ye that my concern and especial when
you referring to it concepts really what i may be legion an auto mono thing the leal be right there you know cause how are you what is only to con amazon it says for maltete book
now hard to cover and then kindled an audible thud mind doesn't have that to so people can't call on it and they ask me there asked me on to enter when the audible colaredo able
one night after spondeo don babalawo gate yet again we're just at more concerned that people that have it can utilize it properly he and i use befor sure i do but not as much in
use kindle that's where it looks that the actual like reading part of it it's astrut is the best with the tracks it is better because when you want to refer to you know he it's
like okay i'll want to go through the martial arts part three you know all this these are the parts when you want to refer to it it's good whom he to an thing aback with audible
format it's going to be harder to be like okay in men find it you you're knocking of enjoy doing that if you win yes let's allison to still you know listen to and one or the
doolittle yes exact the acid up yeah but it does make more sense when you think about the whole skull ye of the discipline was freedom fell manual so editeth opportunity to tell
people that an tell em because i can't tell everyone i tried yes that where you can find it here he is a thing ultimately it's not hard to get i mean it's no a young hard to get
it all so not all in the same analect it and peep expect to find things where they expect to find things yet as they so we've thrown them curall it little you know it but it's
it's like i said it superdog that would be less usable by people in the man of that they want to use it or make a little harder to find a line i said maybe not as many people can
buy it because they won't find it i don't care i'd rather have to people that really want it get to use it away one o us to be curved the how i rose low his curved ball in his
safe clarbone gatineau you ave to do an extra collected be spasammy people last on i shall meet in it were when it's coming out all right in uditore yet he it that does make sense
no especially if you used to listen for audiobook than you're like coke elende book right the word oudinot make ancinale curful yes list that is a carbonate as she ate while
you're on amazon also you can get jack away tea which tastes good and we'll guarantee you a dead lift of eight thousand pounds she shedwater books should get on their away the
warrior kid that's for kids that want to get after it or unify want your kid to get after it you arrester stronger better you want beat helper get em that book awesome feet back
in that book which is some of my favorite feed back its pictures of kids reading way the warrior kit soon pull up a olding poland doing gigito who and doing flash cards and their
little book reports alexino reports here so rendlewood pukeko report when you are seven years old it's kind of a big deal it's like you're getting published for the first time as
it all you like it away again i wrote thus this is my assessment in the book way the warrior kid probably the most important thing i ever been written jackets to a picture you
know what i mean that eucles jay cried there you can't hardly tell could done loathing like him but as most of the other janet or not my favor over here but yet i like so those
little things ah we had to book a streoneshalh written by myself and my brother laid babinet and he is about combateth this one he could freedom feel manuel yes the book that just
came out and thank everyone for getting it for spreading the word for i like a bunch of people and put on the stack there getting in notches for them to their own the path there
onything they want to get their friends on the program they want to get their work person they want to get their kid on the program father son saw that one yesterday on social
media father son boom boom two copies will giving on a prior so that's awesome and appreciate it e o other some indiscipline reviews gagait read some of the reviews of the emerson
reviews some metraton them are otometer is a one aisopion but um there's a massimo use so if you want rather review you can do that to the work of art really fine to look at it i
think it looks pretty cool it's pretty a there's no other books that really looked like that not that i know of not so that's that and like i said the the audiovisuals on amptee
golbai tondamen music and all that if you need me your ship support for your team or your business then you can higher eshelman which is our leadership in mansueti company me lay
fading to know dave bert email infinitorum and to calm and if you kondalian out with us on this pot cast and you want to may be close with us some more confined us on eendract in
degrand apish bore a echo is an echo charles and i am at jocko willing and again thanks to all of you out there in uniform on the front lines like go walter in the dirt and the
filth and the discomfort and the danger alberdin the line thank you all for what you do through the police and landforce men and fire fighters and medical emergency technicians
and the rest the first responder thank you for keeping us safe here at home to the teachers out there getter teaching orchids teaching those young trouble makers like i was but
them on the right path teaching them that discipline equal freedom thank you for doing what you do and the rest of you that are out there doing your job and doing it to the best
of our ability making life better for yourself your family your community are country in the world thanks for grinding and grappling and striving and scratching and continuing day
after day after day to get out there and get after it so until next time missus echo and jocko own
