this is jacopo cast number ninety eight with a charles and me jock a willin good evening ah good evening they asked us to take off our head
scarves and loosen any buttons to reveal our chests that courtyard became the market place where i is men came and chose girls they liked
though they first sent all the older women to another place and the women with babies and other children to another place we do not know
the whereabouts of these women and that includes my mother and my sisters i had my period that night but no matter how much i told him i
have my period he did not believe me he ordered me to strip naked in his room then he stuck his finger in my vagina and saw that i was
indeed bleeding only then did he believe but that did not mean he left me alone instead he put the air conditioner on the really high
volume said that i am to sit still in my net the whole night and he molested me throughout the night by the time morning arrived i was
frozen both physically and psychologically nothing mattered after that point i didn't know i had not seen the worst of it yet he would put
on horrible sexual movies and would do all kinds of things to me they all had long hair and long beards but the worst of all is their smell
i have never smelled such awful smell in my life they do not bathe they feel more like beasts than human only ized women are taken as
slaves she women they burned alive we saw one she a woman burned alive in front of us christian women may leave on the condition that their
family must pay a fee for ices for being christian in ices or territories and soon i women are left alone as long as they follow ies orders
if they don't they are whipped and tortured some of them are the wives of our captors some of the wives were as helpless as we were and
some were very mean women who encouraged their men to rape us as long as a girl has some breast she is considered a woman and that entitles
them to rape her some girls are as young as ten and eleven years old i have no past and no future at the moment i am stuck in my anger and
pain at what i as did to my family my community and myself i have a new behaviour that i can't stop including washing my mouth over and
over again there are nights i wake up more than one time to wash my mouth as i remember what they did to me and how they forced themselves
on me i am a dead person now i have no life i only hope that my mother comes back from capture some my life can resume so those are
excerpts from article that was in the new york times by zane nob sabean the coach or from lay la which is a suitor who was a idioma
captured by ices and obviously captives lave and she eventually escaped and gave that interview in a camp in earl bell which is a northern
iraq which at the time was an iraqi government controlled city and i would say this if you think that evil does not exist in the world you
are wrong it does and it's not just individual scattered around these are groups of supposed human beings that are systematically
implementing heinous and evil acts on totally innocent people and i have obviously talked about evil before on this podcast to ony years
ago during the genesian the wanda fifty years ago in vietnam during the mulinassar seventy five years ago a note germany eighty years ago
when the king under the imperial japanese army and those things are in the past but it isn't portant to remember that evil is still
happening now and i know that it is hard for us to see that especially here in america in this unbelievably well protected bubble that we
live in a bubble that is provided and protected by young and brave men and women volunteered to go out and hold the line but the evil is
out there it always is and tonight we have a cast on a potest that i think as a very clear understanding of evil of wearious from and how
it manifests itself in the world and he also has an credible understanding of the good and what we as people can do to live our lives
better for ourselves for families for our communities and for the world his name is doctor jordan b peterson and a not exactly sure when i
heard doctor pierson for the first time but as i dugento the content on line what really she struck me was that what he was saying and he
was an academic on unbelievably smart unbelievably well read person and yet when he said things they all lined almost perfectly with things
that i believed and things that i had learned in my life and so here we were these two radically different people from different
backgrounds one highly educated college professor the other a military veteran and a certified knuckle dragger and yet our thoughts were
very aline and the way that i was here him kahito ry and fought around human psychological evolution into the social structure into
societal structure and the way laid out the maps of meaning behind the way we think it was very useful and its help me realize that the way
i feel in my gottmituns about people and about the world there there for reason it isn't random there is some reason behind the way that i
think and the way that we think so geordani on the shelf very glad to be here at saat's quite the beginning i think i like i said it's very
easy for people to lose track of a fact that while you're sitting in an air conditioned space somewhere thinking about your neck netive
that you're going to watch there's ether people that are in the most horrible and hainous situations that it are being put on them by other
human beings and it doesn't really stop how will it to hard thing for people to to contemplate i mean cursed two elements to life that her
hard to contemplate i mean one is that the suffering that attendant on life fundamentally and then the other is the malevolence of people
and were not in the modern world we don't really think about those as fundamental realities in some sense now because we we tend to think
about material situations as fundamental realities but the metaphysical realities the ethical realities are more real and it's necessary to
know that in order orient yourself properly in life hianonwes really took the idea of good seriously transcendent good let say or ultimate
good until i convinced myself of the existence of well if it wasn't ultimate evil it was sufficiently ultimate for me no cause i immersed
myself in the study of the nosehole acosta and of what happened in on king and what happened with unitive thirty one which is the most
horrifying absinthin material i ever read which is really saying something because there is plenty of horrified material to read and at
what happened in the soviet union and what happened in maleschi which in olofee people know about now and i i guess but i found most
striking especially with regard to what happened in this innovation was that well in and an injurey for that matter was at the rear number
of people who were writing about it like victor frankly is who wrote and search for meaning and also alexanderson edson who wrote to glear
caterico which should be required reading for every i think for every american citizen am that that there was some integral relationship
between the moral failings of individuals and the calorific moral failings of the state and that that was directly causally related you
know so sauciness and made a great case in with regard to the analysis of the marks of catastrophes in the soviet union that they were tied
in tirely not only two to that dogma but also to the willingness of the typical citizen to swallow endless lies and an act mantanance
himself in that in that set of of of deceitful people that say and it really struck me that because the wardles writings are so profound
victor rankles another good example can't re read that without it really punching you you know ah it really struck me that it really struck
me that it was possible that there was some direct interior latinship between the individual moral choices that people made in their day to
day lives and the broad scale social movements that happened around them and i i think i come to believe that that's the case and am well
certainly the story that you read the person who was written about the ripest was making all sorts of individual choices it and in all it
he might have been convincing himself that he was on some kind of holy mission and but i guess that would be in parts or that he could
stand look again at himself in the mirror in the morning without running away screaming he saw what was really there so when the things in
in france that kind of an immense for meaning that definitely to cut points that really hit me hard when i was really was won as i i i
didn't understand the extent to which the caps which were the jewish prisoners that got taken on board to help and would would get special
treatment at number one i did realized the extent to which they were in existence i knew that i knew what they were but i realized that
they were they were as aggressive as they were and the other thing that hit me is is that the paragraph or the lines where he sang that the
best of us did make it out on and that if you were going to live you had to do things that you wouldn't want to may be do and maybe if you
were a a a better person maybe you wouldn't do and to me that was harsh of nessus his admitting that that if you wanted to survive as a
person in that situation you might have to take some one's piece of bread you might have to move a number on a list to get someone else
sent down to the down to the execution area a day earlier than you and that happens to postpone your execution long enough that you can
make another move and that's a scary thing how you saw the same thing with social nets and description of the gullies because they were run
in large part by the inmates but i think that that's a ready good metaphor for totalitarian states in general you know because we like to
think that a tall tall atarin state is made up of innocent oppressed individuals who are under the thumb of a the evil tyrant and that all
of the catastrophes are cascading from the talk down but i don't think that that's true i think that it's more like a holographic structure
where the tyranny exists at every single level so it exists psychologically and exists within the family and it exists within the mid level
organizations and so well you know in eastern germany for example one out of every three people was a government informer so what that man
is if you had a family of six people that two of the ecoules and you can't see you can't just say that that's a consequence of the talk
down structure at terneuse thing that exists everywhere simultaneously once if once it gets a grip and it's easy for people to say things
like while i was just following orders and you know i'm not i'm not trying to put myself in the position where i am claiming did if i was
in that position i wouldn't follow orders in the same way and me god only knows till you get there right that's for sure but but what that
did to me was focus my attention more and more on on ah the necessity of individual responsibility i thought if it was individuals in the
final analysis who her responsible for the great evils of the twentieth century which i think is a reasonable way of of conceptualize it
then it might be individuals who could reach be responsible for whatever good there might be in mankind that could help us avoid those
situations in the future and i thought of that as an alternative in some sense to nihilistic disbelief and ideological possession you know
as to group identity is too tight then you start out in like the like the a while i like a like a coin a mob not a very bad thing but then
if you're group identity disappears completely well then your left alone and bereft and so those are bad alternative right you sort of
damned if you do and damned if you don't in it it was it was very difficult to understand that there might be a third path between those
two i couldn't see the the existence of anything cause people need belief systems in order to exist right to maintain psychological
stability and to main so maintain sociological stability as well but then if the belief give too rigid then the turning to the raging
totalitarian mob so may be elect that doll because you don't want to play that game but then you dissolve because you have no identity
that's not that's not acceptable either when i first laid that out that clearly it was really hard on me because i couldn't see a third
path to that but then i started to realize and this was a consequence of reading the sorts of things that we already talked about but also
upstarting to understand the underlying structure of mythology and what the heroic path man to sentially and hat meant adoption of supreme
moral responsibility as an individual now there's a there's this there's this idea in the new testament which is really interesting idea no
it's it's one of these bottomless ideas and i mean that literally you could study it for ever and never get to the bottom of it and the
idea is that christ is the person who takes the sins of mankind on himself and there something redemption that and that's our shrilly dark
idea because what it means as far as i can tell what it means at least what it means psychologically is that when you read these terrible
things you have to understand that you reading about you if you don't understand that you reading about you then you don't actually
understand the stories you know because you you put yourself in the position where are your automatically the good person who would never
do anything like that and then these other people are while their devils in some sense right in it and and it's very easy for people to
make that division but it's a horrific realization when you think that that devil that you see outside is the same thing that inside in
that you don't know until you're put in this situation like that what you might do and that it even worse because if you look at the
historical evidence you know um it's it was ordinary people in some sense that produced the catastrophes of noiterin in and the soviet
union in malice china mean they might not have originated it but they certainly had the option to say no at different parts of different
steps along the way and they did eat in noon these things do happen one horrible thing at a time there's this great book called ordinary
men ah which which describes the descent of of a german police force from ordinary burgeoned class man necessay just ordinary placemen who
actually were raised before the hitherty weren't indoctrinated in a asoudee o and they were they were brought into poland to sort mooar the
germans had walked through and it describes how they descended into the sort of people who would take naked women out naked pregnant women
out into the middle of fields and shoot them in the back of the head and what's horrifying about the book is that the author m browning ah
details the stages by which this occurred in it it's all for example the commander of this unit told the man net they were going to have to
do terrible things but that they could go home if they wanted to and then you think well there is a there's an out but but then if you
really think about it you think well there are tight tightly knit casimir organization and one of the natural thoughts under that
circumstance would be will i not going to leave my comrades to do all the dirty work that would just be a matter of cowardice and so you
can see that you know that there's an ethical requirement that would keep me there to begin with and then they were going our dear your
doing what you just said which is taking the burden of this sin placidity on yourself if you let everyone else to it that you're not you're
not acting heroic marit in that and miss it was easy for the men to get in trap into that and then you know the requirements for their
horrific action kept ramping up and like each time the accepted the requirement of doing one of her epic thing the probability that they
would accept the next requirement increased and what is also really interesting about that book home ordinary man is that it's not like
these men didn't suffer like they were suffering terribly they were physically ill they were vomiting they were they were tearing
themselves apart psychologically in all but they didn't quit so that's a hot a great book because if ye want to know how you walk down the
how you how you can be enticed to walk down a terrible path that's the book to read and it's very frightening because if you read it
properly then you know you have to read it it again as i said as if you're one of the people to whom this is happening not the victim but
the oppressor in now and i mean you can also read it as the victim that's fair enough but but it's ordinary people who participated in
these things and not so very very terrifying thought we actually covered that book on this pot cast and both the ye ye onpolite frankland
and ordinary manage em it's interesting cause i as i as i yonath all your stuff red and one of the things i was thinking about is you know
you talk about where the the the hero comes from where this idea comes from and how we ended up looking at these types of people as their
good and it happens over ages natures and generations and generations of saying that a good quality and that's a good quality in there
these ten people that are all considered good people in they all have this couple qualities in common so those are good qualities and
eventually that becomes um elevated to the point where we say that hero and when i was thinking of tilataeans on now we all have this
elevated thing to look at and say that's something we can aspire to that's where we want to go let's we want to be we want to we want to
help and on o support we want to make sacrifices for the tribe how do we end up or who ends up saying i see something evil and i'm going to
follow in that direction well i think that that the story of cain and able is really very tightly a constructed representation of of that
process because immediate it's very strange story because well for a variety of reasons first of all tarancon second of all is the first
story about human beings mythologically speaking within the judhistra nor cannon let say because out of an eve aren't real people right
because they are formed by god can enable ear the first people and there a pair of hostile brothers and so the first thing that says is
that sibling tension within families is a universal truth and tappin get murderous and if you don't know that and you can't see that then
you're not watching your children carefully enough so because what siblings can torment each other too to a great degree and it something
that you should strive diligently to observe and to quell ah but then there is this in the next part of it that so interesting is the idea
of sacrifices he is introduced and that it took me a long time to understand what sacrifice met ah because on the surface of it especially
the way it's acted out like bird offerings and out sort of thing it just seems like why it seemed so archaic and and distant from us that
it's not recompensable but partly from reading champagni started nichifor that matter i started to understand that people often acted out
conception before they understood what they meant you know and we act out a lot of things we don't understand because we're much more
complex than we can represent roas acting out things we don't understand but so there's this idea in kanele that you have to make
sacrifices in order to stay on the good side of god and so i thought about that a practically say not so much metaphysically but
practically and realized that that was equivalent to the discovery of time of the future because we do we do act in it in nisasapi
discovery of human beings may be a consequence of er expanded intelligences that were actually aware of the future we actually treat the
future as if it something that you can bargain with now partly it's because the future is other people and they remember your reputation
they remember your past actions and if you do some one a favour then that favour is in some sense stored up in the future so you could
think about the future as a place of judgment about your moral actions and it's not that far from that to imagining a god whose keeping
track of that or who even is that but in any case the idea of sacrifice he merges in the story of cananaean cane and able both makes
orifices to god in in order to stay on his good side let's say and what a sacrifice means is that you give up something of value in the
present so that you can be so that you can improve the future and you know that's no different from what we call discipline it's exactly
the same thing it's just thought that concretely acted out version of that and so you know the idea of basically was that well god was in
the transcendent heavens and and the first question would be well wi is that when i like well if you go out in a really dark night and look
up at the sky you have a sense of what's beyond you what what's transcendant what's infinite and and so to associate that with the highest
values is a reasonable association right from from a safe from an emotional point of view so it's not particularly primitive its smart a
metaphor or it's a smart intuition that that that and its above you and in all we tend to think of when your moving towards an ideal that
your moving off that your moving above you moving to the mountain talk right your going off not down and so all sits within that same
framework and at parecas when you go up like on a mountain you can see for long distances right so those dolose things are tangled together
so anyways so the ideas that you have to give up something of value now so you so that you make the future better and sometimes it even
something you love now and not that's good example too because often the things that stoles for moving forward are are atachment to things
that we should no longer be attached to right and in fact you can almost make that definition if you're not moving forward in your life
there's a high probability that you have some idea or some mode of action or some habit that your so in love with that you won't let go of
it so all right so cananaean an able make sacrifices and there's kind of a hint in the story that it's just a hand that can sacrifices her
sort of second rate but in any case it's ambivalent tape but but able he just does wonderfully well and everything works out for him and
every one knows people like that you know and so god accepts his sacrifices but for some reason he rejects canes and maybe it's the
arbitrariness of god or may be it's cascanet is and in the right place when he's making his sacrifices which is more likely and so king
goes and has a chat with god and he says basically what he says is something like how in the world can you possibly justify this universe
that you created you look at me and i'm breaking myself and half trying to adapt into make things right and it's not working and then
there's this able character and things come easy to him and everything is flourishing for him and so like what the hell and if you don't
understand that question then you're not thinking because it's very very frequently the case when a serious catastrophe beset sea and life
that you essentially ask exactly that question what's the meaning of life what's the purpose of the world how come there suffering and it's
easy to become resentful and vengeful as a consequence of that and so you got to think about what state of mind having your sacrifices
rejected puts you in especially when you see some one whose successful because that's where the jealousy and and resentment starts to start
to what faster is probably the right word and so god says to can exactly what he doesn't want to hear which is well ye okay but you have
made lots of mistakes in your life so he basically says sin is at your door like a predatory and sexually aroused animal and youvanaki
house to have its way with you and produce something creative as a consequence say t use of sexual metaphor you know and so that you
willingly gone down the negative path and you allowed that enter into you and and to operate in a creative manner and you've spun of all
these terrible thoughts and and this justification for not acting properly and that's why things aren't going well for you in so don't lay
that at my feet which is the most brutal possible message he could have got and so then he leaves the presence of god let say and it says
in the story that his countenance fell which meant he was basically enraged and so it is he duly goes out and kill abel and then that's
that's a very fascinating idea because able is his ideal so killed his ideal and when you kill your ideal your lost and then he does that
to take revenge on able but also to take revenge on god which i think is extremely interesting and and a deep deep idea like these kids who
shoot up high schools for example you cannot understand what they're doing unless you understand this story of kanana you cannot understand
what possesses them until you can understand that someone even someone who doesn't believe it doesn't matter it's the cycle oil state of
mind that matters is there out for revenge on being itself and that's why they produce as much may have as possible in the shortest period
of time that's why they sacrificing innocent people because it's much more vengeful and and demonstrative to kill innocent people than to
kill guilty people right in cause it's a worse sin so to speak and then they kill themselves and they killed themselves as a final
demonstration of their belief in the anialis and the horror of existence have you might say well and the just kill themselves first and
save every one the trouble in on there's narcissism in that to cause they know their names are going to be splashed across the page that's
their notoriety instead of their accomplishment and of course the medias unbelievably complicated not ah but well so when you're talking
about motivation for evil than you have to understand what it is that driving it on it is a deep resentment about the structure of being
for being what saturated with suffering but also for rejecting your rejecting your sacrifices and that i know that produces the bitterness
of failure and astonish is one of the things that's really interesting about the old testament is that and the jews in the old testament is
that they don't take the path of cane every time their walloped by god which is slick fairly frequently they say we must have done
something wrong and we have to set ourselves right and not so an unbelievably heroic attitude because that the alternative cursing fate
slakeage the responsibility for failure on to yourself and you think well if i was just may be if i just had my act together a little bit
more if i took advantage of every opportunity that was put in front of me if i wasn't resentful and bitter then i could have done something
that would have tilted the situation in a different direction and like that's almost inevitably true what it's interesting and again
thissus kanawha when i would hear you say things like that so as you know i wrote a book called extreme orsepittle opening chapter of the
book as a horrible situation with a fratricide happens on the battle field so friendly forces killing from me forces some of those horses
being mine and you know it it's all these people i could blame in all these little incidents that happened that i could sit well the a we
have this radio ripped a graphic change that happened in the middle operation in and it patel weren't able to talk to each other we had
these iraqis that we didn't speak english we had these united we had worked with before that they did things that we'd expect an there's
plenty of lame ego route and and essentially a said he you know faultless this is my fault on the commander and so when i hear you say
things like that it strikes me that you uncovered this through your study of history and in philosophy and religion and i learned it you
know as like i said of sertify knuckle dragger out on the battle field that realized you know if you're going to exist as a leader and as a
human that you could take responsibility for what happens around you and that's a inhabitate well no the religious notion in some sense is
that you have to take ultimate responsibility and that in some sense the things that happened around you mean this is doses think said
something like every man is responsible for everything that happens to him and everything that happens to every one else and not you know
that that's that's a go it's a crazy statement right it's a crazy statement and he was a pretty extreme person in many many ways but there
is a level at which that's metaphysically true and all because what happens is that it's you its failure to act often that's the most
catastrophic in all men of sais it's it's to not do the right thing when the when the situation presents itself and its very specific you
know your constantly in situations where you could do the right thing if you were willing to take a risk that's actually a relatively
moderate size and you know that you could take the risk and you know that you should take the risk and you don't not happens to people all
the time and then what happens is the thing that they didn't oppose grows a little bit and they shrink a little bit and that starts a loop
he and so when you say well how do you take responsibility for the world and answer is will you also have to do it with a certain degree of
humility because what do you know in one and an this is part of the reason that i'm so opposed to the act of his culture on on college
campus as you don't teach eighteen year olds to go and demonstrate about capitalism you know because they don't know anything and they have
problems in their own life that need to be solved that are local and in the the local problems are trivial you know they're not disciplined
there there there not looking at the world in the strait way they're not taking responsibility for themselves or for their actions their
sexual actions among others they are not taking responsibility for their family their not looking at how they could contribute to the
community they don't understand the fact that they don't know anything and so they should be taught to start locally and to put things
together that they could put together you know to make their beds and to clean up the room and to attend their classes with regularity if
they're going to university castest of the th implicit contract and to straighten up the things around them that are actually within their
power to straighten up and then what happens is that if you do that let say religiously which i suppose would be the same as in a
disciplined manner that your real of influence starts to grow but it grows in a positive way just like you can go you can take you can end
up in hall one step at a time and that's extraordinarily well dockument ed you can end up at the opposite place of that one step at a time
but it's also that same gradual process you don't get to leap from being a seventeen year old not head he doesn't know anything and who is
disciplined to the critic of judea christian society he just don't know enough to do that especially when you can look at your own life and
think about how many things that you're doing that you know a wrong that you could fix that you aren't fixing and that's the crucial thing
it's it's i isn't this this mode of thinking isn't asking people to stretch themselves beyond what they're capable of it's just asking them
to stretch themselves to the point that they are capable of and seeing what happens and that works it works had had many people right
neaver the last year and this is a great thing really it's a great thing who said that they stopped started to tell the truth or at least
not to lie cause who can tell the truth right but at least you could not lie and that they started to put things in order round them that
they could put in order in that you know the pot paused if things to start it to happen like mad and there not nihilistic and they've got a
purpose in their life and so you know thank god through that and it does work hostraten of how to stop the loof my sacrifices have been
rejected and and the way that you stop that loop is instead of saying the at my sacrifices were ejected so my heart work my effort my
everything that i'm doing to try and move forward it's not working and and if you want to go towards hell you keep saying well it's it's
not working but it's but it's because of everyone else it's very jacking me they're not accepting what i've done whereas if you say to
yourself oh it didn't work okay to my fault what can i do better and that's how you start moving in the other direction which is well at
least you have control and i you know we you don't even necessarily have to think it's your fault although that's that's a reasonable way
of looking at it you could you could minimalist except the fact that it's your responsibility here stock with it and you could actually
change it and once you know too that if your failing repeatedly ah then there's probably something wrong it's possible that there's
something wrong with the way that your conception the world because you have a choice right if if you keep making sacrifices and they don't
work there's a vinery choice one is well there's something wrong with this structure of reality and the other is there's something wrong
with your reproach and so then you might say well let's take the first idea or something wrong with the structure of reality saterly going
to say that are you he really going to come out and say i knew enough to judge the nature of being and and then the alternative is also
quite frightening because then you know you it's you that's making the mistakes and you might be wrong in a really deep level and that
might mean that a law to you has to burn off and be transformed maybe even things about yourself that you think her admirable than that you
like because your position you know you're yourself conceptualisation is so warped and wrong and not really daunting but you know when
people set themselves up as the judge of being mean i've written about this affair bitten my new book which is called twelve rules for life
when people set themselves up as the judge of being then they take on what can only be described as a kind of satanic arrogance because
they actually taken to themselves the moral right to criticise the structure of existence itself slike you better be careful when you do
something like that because you're setting yourself up as the judge of being the columbine kids did that like if you read what they wrote
ah it that's exactly what happened in that's exactly what they say is that the youknow i have taken on to myself the task of the judge of
being in founded wanting and so i am going to cause as much mammas i possibly can before i you know before i depart and it that's a very
common story among people who do that sort of thing it's an it so interesting because every time something like that happens to people go
well we don't understand it's like no you won't understand because they right about what they're doing they tell you why they're doing it
but it's so it cuts too close to the bone for people and so they think well we don't understand how that can happen you know like there is
a a while back in it as in connecticut whether his bunch of elementary school kids shot right cause this is kind of a one upmanship game
and it's bad enough to shoot eh school kids but it's even worse to shoot kindergarten elementary kids cause there even clearly more
innocent to like well doubts that's part of that vengeful spirit you know it better to punish the innocent than the guilty if you're trying
to make a statement about your your hatred for the structure of reality and these things you have to understand these things really you
have to understand the matter religious level of analysis because there's no walda's what happens when you encounter evil is that your into
the domain that can only be described by religious ideation and i i don't say that lightly now i'd had many veterans come to talk to me now
and there are people that post traversed disorder and they said that listening to my lecture is helped the outlaw because it provided them
with at pillows philosophy of good and evil and if you have postrema dressed disorder you need a sophisticated philosophy of good and evil
because otherwise you don't have any place to put your experiences and that fragments and shatters you it's it's no it's no trivial matter
to be touched by malevolence or to have it manifested self within you unexpectedly in either it it it it it's physiologically destructive
it it shatters people and you have to move from a naive interpretation of the world to a very deep interpretation of the world if you're
ever going to dig yourself out of that hole you have at interesting in one of the one of the things that i was going to tell you or ask you
about so when i was a kid i i wanted to be a command to like i don't really remember wiling to do anything else when i realized that there
was that roll that you could play in life that's what i wanted to do and and a lot of my friends in the selims wore the same way that's
what they wanted to do and so they figured out like all that's that exists i can do that and i just have to sign this piece of apron go do
this stuff and then that's one i'll be where does that come from well i mean that that's a very good question i mean i would say it's
temperamental i know people differ tremendously in their temperaments and to think that there is a warrior temperament is a perfectly
reasonable thing to think i mean there's been whole cultures many many cultures who are devoted to fostering that morier mentality in a war
if you weren't like that you were the outlier i would say that's probably true of most human cultures across most of time in we've been
fortunate enough to live in relatively peaceful times at least the vast majority of us so the necessity for that like wright at the edges
of actual warfare is much less than it might be under other historical circumstances but but it's it's it's a deep part of of of many
people's nature and so the question is what do you do with that right and i mean one alternative potential cogently as criminal behavior
and you know the fact that so many people like watching movies about bad guise on now is a indication of how attractive that is to people
and i think the reason for that is is that while nitaee at one point that most of what people regard as morality is just cowardice and what
he meant by that was that people don't do bad things not because they are good but because they afraid to do the bad things and then when
they see people do the bad things there actually ready deeply attracted by that because it speaks to part of them that could go beyond the
rules and atsochta a necessary part it's a really necessary part like you don't make men save by making them weak in fact you there much
more dangerous when they're weak because they'll stab you in the back when i get the chaps or take advantage of you when you when they get
the chance you make men safe let's say by making them strong and then by making sure that their disciplined and so you know you've got
people like you of god this let's say warrior mentality that's a part deep part of their temperament and then you have some choice about
what you might do with that you might try to discipline it bring it under voluntary control and integrated into your character in which it
then it can make you some one whose stalwart and indomitable and and who will move forward in in the face of tremendous risk and while
that's the actable that's the optimal a pathway if you have that kind of temperament i and i i think like it's the men that have the most
what would you call it is not aggressive exactly but will will leave it at that aggressive inferlenzer aments that can be the best man but
it's like having a very powerful dog you better civil you better discipline because otherwise it's going to be a monster a well with it i
had the fort was a rebellious kid right and i could have easily gone down the path of crime and as a matter of fact if many of my friends
that i you know left when they stayed in the outat home they they did it up as criminals and we having big trouble with the law or going
down even path of drugs and everything else that you can get into but but when we were kids or younger everyone candahar the same thing but
like you said i kind of so lucky because i just sign that piece of paper and i and i saw that i could do something and i could take all
that aggression and all that and ergasili that was good and positive and and we joke about that in the selims that many guys you you you
actually to be a good seal you sort of you sort of have this criminal mind set that you you've somehow harness that you keep under control
most of the time and anacaona does get out of hand and we got guys that get in trouble one that happens and if we if we only took guys that
would never get in trouble we wouldn't have any one in the ranks oreludiae you also see to in the class a curious stories of men you see
this with harry paterflor example which i making reference to because it was such a phenomena i mean when when when something makes a
welfare mother richer than the queen of england you shouldn't take no right and went when kids are reading five hundred page books in
muenden in line waiting for the next one in when you produce a whole move umpire round something you should take note of that well harry
parters little team aren't the delinquent right who have no disciplined but there also not be good kids they're the kids who will break
rules when necessary and that's that's the issue break rules win necessary now the question is when is that necessary will that sort of the
ultimate ultimate ethical choice but it now our why did that work for you do you think no like in what why was it well to questions one
would be why did you decide to step into a disciplined structure the annatoo sly very difficult and why do you think you did that and some
of the other kids that you knew that were like you didn't it was really one of the most rebellious things that i could do was to join the
military so i come from a small new england town people get done with high school they go to college they get a job as whatever people get
jobs as they follow that very normal path and and i didn't even know any one that join the military stand and so that was the most
rebellious thing i could do oh college no education no i'm on to go be a commando that's what i'm going to do and and it was the most
rebellious thing i could do i think that's one of the reasons why i did it it was also a complete break away from you know family okay i
have i leave no reliance on you you know i'm going you'll have to worry about me any more i'm done um i will not rely on any one else will
be set for ligated to do and so i think those of a main things that that got me there and then one great about it for me was when i got
there you have a completely blank slate and you have very clear directions of what you need to do to to send the the dominant ritratti you
do this you follow these rules you you literally fold your underwear in this way when you're going through boot camp and you get a better
grade on your military performance so they give you very clear rule that your supposed to follow and very clear task that you have to do
and and it was great for me because it's a point light because when i was in high school i was i was screw up not bad but not good and and
so i hadn't really set myself up properly and now all of a sudden all i had to do that that was all gone to didn't matter that the past did
not matter all i have completely blank slate if you do this stuff properly you'll you'll do well and you used that ye will that's it i
argotier interesting thing because then it's not merely a matter of following a said of our returning rules it's falling i said of rules
and have a clear path to success right down to very different thing and and not that's also something that's honest because the rules of
the game are well established in an a few played properly you get to win and not to big deal as well you know now mentioned am the seal
tights and i've met a number of people like that um in now there there they are capable of breaking rules let say or may be even inclined
to break them but i also think that that this is part of the reason that i admire of carl young because young makes it very clear that sea
he was very interested in the barriers to enlightenment because if there's a if there's such a thing as being enlightened let's say then
why isn't everyone in lightened if it's just a matter of of taking that the glorious um um route and and following your bliss let's say
it's like we'll have sounds pretty easy why isn't everyone in lightened and but young thinking isn't like that at all you know he he
believed it in order to transform me personality that first of all you had to be disciplined that's for sure but you also had to integrate
that part of you that was terrible and capable of breaking rules and make it part of you and so then and i really liked that idea well here
here's an example so bout twenty years ago i would say there is a newspaper headline um in one a canadas made your newspapers and it was
the minister of foreign affairs at that time laid axworthy and he was talking about what had happened with a melosan the former soviet
union in new lava and the atrocities that were being committed and he said that he that he was caught on a war by that because he didn't
have the imagination for that kind of evil and i thought well you know you think that what you're doing you signal in your virtue by making
a statement like that but from my perspective all your doing his state in your cowardice and your historical ignorance because if you're
going to be minister of foreign affairs you bloody well better have imagination for that kind of evil because if you don't then any one who
does wins they beat you and so you you know and gennery part i stories you see he's touched by evil right he he actually has a soul
fragment that's imbedded within him that he as black as anything can possibly be that's why he could talk to snakes but without that he
wouldn't be able to have any victory and not exactly right psychologically unless you can think the way that an evil person thanks then
you're defenseless against them because they'll go place as you can't imagine it them they win and so the best man i've met that with
interesting even when i was in junior high nichol because most of my friends dropped out in all by the time their great ten thereabouts and
late them were guise who developed physically there pretty powerful in their just damp sick and put up their hand to go to the bathroom and
like you know they are not doing that any more what am i friends got kicked out when he sort o challenge the gym teacher you know
physically and the jim teach her he could do an iron cross he was a tough guy and so was no trivial matter for my friend to stand up to him
but he got expelled any ways but you know i noticed that it wasn't it it was often the kids whose characterised mired that either quitter
got expelled and they were the tofferus who were just sick and tired of following rules that didn't take into account their character in
they go off work in oil rings or whatever and deep do that now bernadotte that was really hard work you know so he wasn't like they were
necessarily taking these path but like a harmless man is not a good man a good man is a very very dangerous man who has that under
voluntary control and you know you also see that um like one of the central do see male stories let say i if the hero archetype is the
central male story there are very into pure archetypes that are relevant to women and one of them is duty in the best and you know beauty
isn't interested in the guy who isn't the beast she is interested in the guide whose the beast and that's exactly right but he she's
interested in in the guidos the beast that can be civilized and disciplined right in who can use that in the service while let's say a
family and had not exactly well that's exactly how it should be so i gave a speech of one of my very good friends got married ah yefter ago
and i gave his speech and at this speech he was a a friend of mine seal and at this speech i was talking about what it was to be a man and
what when i felt like i was a man and i said there were three things that i that i felt what let me transition from being you know men to
lean secure about who i was as a person it had being a gay i'm actually good with who i am number one was learning out fight and you no i
got into presintimint arts and i anawari and now all of a sudden when i looked at other people i didn't i wasn't posturing i wasn't trying
to contend that i was though i was i knew that most people that i would encounter i could to defeat in a physical altercation that was
number one number two was going in the combat because even though you might be tough in him in a street fight or in a fist fight with some
one when you're facing death well that's a whole nother level and for me going in the combat or what was i going to act like as i got to be
scared was i goin to be a coward was i goin to be scared of death and when i would to combat i wasn't i was fine i was okay with the fact
that i could die and and i was okay with that and i made good decisions and and did what i was supposed to do and the last one was a
commerrianti because all of a sudden all these things these being aggressive and working to fight and be able to destroy in an efficient
way while then i took that and combined it with a canonicate care of these my wife and our children and that's what i'm going to do and if
my point in giving this speech with us a guy that i learn how to fight he was a guide that had been in combat and now there was one more
step to take which was okay noreen get married any entitate care of his people so to interesting that that once again that i conomy that
that you talk about it fits perfectly into who it the way i think you flings out as a as a guide that went to high school and joined the
military it's kind of it's got a ray let reinforced is what you always say which is that there is there's deeper meaning there's a reason
why i'm thinking that and the reason is because i've because of the things that you talk about the way these things are overlaid throughout
history for human being still got to this point he will you acted it out you know which is what you're supposed to do and and so it's
better to act it out and to understand it you all that's that's best it's better it's better to understand it and not act it out than to
not understand it at all but the best is to act it out and understand it is cause then you can you know then then the way that you
represent the world and yourself is in accordance with the way that you act and that stops bats optimize yet it's it's something that i was
kind of acting out again no no real gilet my guide lines were like a raising the shelties that that sort of my guidelines it and here the
good example and i first got this holham there's no war going on so what it would it good yellow you know you did you and out drinking got
barfield the senora went out drink got marfa's what okay that's what i'm supposed to do it took me a while to figure out milters actually
something more than that like where octal supposed to be preparing for war and and and so now at like you said i i definitely acted things
out and sort of was on a decent path but as i got older and more mature and to this day as i can look around and and actually overlate
understanding on the way up carry out my life is very it very helpful to me and it's also helps me explain it to other people that see the
path at amenothes like that path they would like to join me on that path and i did guy that in what i was in i i you know i try i look like
a serial killer for all practical purposes i that's the way i come across right now any were not creepy enough ether's there's guys that
would um you know that at work for me or guide that would be around me and they see me and made kind of latch on to the fact that i was
tossing aggressive and and and some of those guys they wouldn't catch the other part which was that i was policy savings working in i was
manoeuvring in or was you know figuring things out and talking to my boss in such a way that we could get what we need to be and i was
doing that he other side and said get these guys that would end up not doing this well as they should do because they were just a jocko's
just alterative and he gets after it and that's where i'm in to do and i'll be in the same place the guy that would do well in the guise
all a jockey's alone aggressive and he gets after it he also working and he's also manoeuvering he's also massagete eagles of the people
around him to make sure that he get position and ripe spot with it and go to war of in the right way and and so as i've got old have been
able to tell people that more clearly like hey it's not just about that side of the ulcerative be got to be rest if you got to be willing
to fight got to be a willing to kill and he got to be willing to die at the same time you've got to be able to tamper and temper all those
things in such a way that they can be controlled and disciplined well i also think that that's part of what makes a world peaceful in the
in the final analysis because if you're around people who are dangerous but disciplined then everyone watches their step and that's exactly
what should happen everybody should watch their step and if you do if if there is no reason for that then while there is no there's no
sanction for for poor behaviour for example like a menifee you're going to discipline the child the child has to be convinced that your of
a of force that's worthy of paying attention to you now i see kids i there's a chapter in my book called don't ever don't let your children
do anything that makes you dislike them and i am pretty happy about this chapter although i suspected will be rather controversial and in
nowthree first on observation that many people hurt their children physically ancyloceras every one gets sentimental about the relationship
between parents and children but that's especially in relationship to themselves because they think well you know of course i'm going to be
a good parent it's like it's not so bloody obvious that you're going to be a good parent you know and so and then what i see happening with
people who don't know how to discipline their children is that the children run roughshod over them in their let's call them a higher
arcadius because children push for position and higher archy and they do that behavior to sort of feel out the contours of the social
structure so you know your kid lack perfectly fine at home let's say at at the dinner table but then you take them to a stranger's dinner
table and all of a sudden they have doubts and you take what at with you a little monster and what's up is that they're trying to figure
out what the power structure is in the new they don't know this of course but their acting this out they're trying to figure out if the
same rules of ply in this new situation as applying the old situation and they can't ask that and they don't even know that they are rules
exactly their regularities that they've learnt and so they'll past in test and then you have to show them that yet the same here is the
same in this situation but laniare are very uneasy with disciplining their children partly because there they believe that if you give a
child infinite freedom that's best for them in that constraint are in appropriate which is really just well i don't know how what to say
about that except it so untrue that that it's very difficult to think of anything that's more untrue to enough but also the thing is is if
you let your children take advantage of you if you have an alansone and an ounce of aggression which you do especially if you don't admit
it then you will take revenge on your children now so they have a temper tonton a grocery store and embarrass you which child whose county
can do quite effectively you know because you would let them have that pack of crayons or a choclate bar and and then you know you you tell
yourself it's okay and that you still you know that that that really didn't make you that angry and it's okay but your feeling inside and
then you go home and half an hour later maybe the child is doing some interesting little bit of work may be art work or something or guess
something good and comes up for a reward it's like the probability that you are going to reward that child properly under those
circumstances is zero you're going to take the opportunity to take your revenge and if you don't know that then you're not much of a parent
and so part of the trick with kids is that if your child is doing something that makes you dislike them that you have to figure out how to
stop them from doing that and teach them how to do it properly i have to talk to your wife to make sure that you're not being too much of a
monster you know on the same with her but that that discipline is partly what enables you to continue to like your child well you love them
and even more than that you know parents talk about fostering self esteem and fostering creativity and all of that in their kids and i
think that's miss begotten ah it's shallow for a variety of reasons first it's not that easy to foster creativity cause it's rare and self
esteem is a very badly defined concept and mostly it's been used for harm not good what your job is as a parent is to help your child learn
from between two years old and say four years old how to act in the world so that when people encountered them people smile and her happy
there around because then in i've seen kids who behave badly and everywhere they go people wear false smiles and everywhere they go people
are relieved when they leave and that means you think about that world from the child's perspective every one's lying and every one hates
them that's their world and then if you have your child you know capable of adhering to minimally requirements like may be beable to sit at
the table in a civilized manner for an hour and being grateful for being fed let's say and knowing how to share and knowing how to pay
attention to adults and and not having that in o that kind a terrible cynicism and and arrogance that can develop even in the four year old
child whose always had its sway then then still interact with adults in the manner that bring out the best in the adults and every retheive
one smiles at them and pats the manhead may be even tells them useful and interesting things and so the whole world opens up for them and
that's all a consequence of you having enough courage to admit to yourself that your child can do things that you don't like and that you
will take it out on them if you don't straighten it out and people don't like that idea because they think well i'd never do anything you
know i love my child i'd never do anything to hurt them it's like heaod right you know you're so so you're so asleep think that that that
there's almost no hope for you you have to think i'm away bigger than this child and i'm way meaner and i'm way trickier and i'm way more
unpredictable and so i'd better be very careful in my relationship with this child so that the worst of me doesn't come out and then that
gives you enough intelligence to make a discipline are framework that's minimal and inforcibly in carefully and then you can have an
unbelievably good relationship with your kids so and this idea of despinosa i talk about this blinton one of the things you were talking
about earlier with the red guards the veterans and people that have listened to your lectures and it's the same thing with me people that
listen to this pot castor or read the books and and one of the things that i've noticed enough talked about and of gotten a lot of positive
feet back on the iskooter the military you have the discipline and beyond them that beyond the discipline that imposed on you you also have
a rap that you have to just hold the line yourself i mean when you are in the military sure you go through but camp with hers a
gonstruction the jellies that but it was you in the military you're doing what you have to do it self discipline that you learn that and
you become self discipline and what happens is guy's get out and the that's that's gone and that hurt them and the other thing that hurts
them is they don't know what their mission is any more and and my big thing with people that have been telling that's now as find what your
next mission is go find whatever you're necticut it is but has to be something and i was listen to you talk on something the other day and
and you are you talking about how not doing anything when people are not going anywhere when there winter failing when there when they
don't have the drive it's because they're not accepting responsibility for anything and and so by way of saying that as i you need a new
mission you be responsible for something and you need to go and move toward some new mission and and you and counter people that or you see
people that's very problematic in the civilian side is well where people they just don't know what they're doin that a responsibility for
an tantara of this nihilism you know is that because first of all you learn the truth is relevant relative and that there is no real moral
order and you know that alleviates you of responsibility and not wi that such an attractive message to people but the problem is is that it
kills you it kills your soul so to speak because well when we can talk about this technically so you know there are systems neuralgic
systems that underlie our experience of negative emotion and there are neronic systems that underlay er experience of positive motion in
their separate systems they obviously interact but their separate systems so but the positive emotion system alters two of them but one of
them sort of kicks in when you get something that you want so you know your hungry and elegantes good and so that's kind of the simple one
oh but there's a more sophisticated one that i think is even more active in people um and it's the one that tells you that your moving
forward toward something worth while and that actually the one that gives people that sense of meaningful engagement in their life on a
moment to moment basis so and and it's also it's also something that doesn't have to go away like if you're hungry and you while that's
good but it's over and then you're on to the next thing right it's not exactly sustaining its just necessary that's called consummator
reward by the way this other rewards system is incentive reward and the incentive reward system works on doaine chemical dope ametics is
also the denerel tracks that opiates and cocain amphetamine the drugs of people ready like to abuse alcool than for some people a active
ate and so you might say if you don't have enough meaning in your life than your more prone to a diction and that's definitely the case
even with rats if you take a rat you put him in a cage by himself and he has nothing to do and then you give him access to go caninely get
addicted to the point where he won't do anything but take cocaine but if you throw the rod back in with much other rats and he gets to do
rat things then it's very hard to get him addicted to cocaine and so the purposeless rat is prone to a diction what's the same with human
beings now here is a corollary to that which is really cool so the magnitude of the reward you experience as your moving towards a goal is
proportionate to the importance of the goal so that means the more important the go you pick the more possibility there is for the kind of
reward let's say it is really a state of being that is life affirming and it is directly life affirming in that in all like if your afoot
ball game in your and insinerate game and maybe break a finger and in a normally that that's a problem of it hurts and yearn estop doing
whatever you're doing but if you're right in the middle of the game then you'll be so am up on this reward system that its analgesian stop
the pain and also suppresses anxiety so if you have a purpose then it's analgesic i take some of the pain out of life it's very positive in
that it motivates and energizes you in focus as you and makes you able to remember on and pay attention and it it quills fear and so those
things are all direct and so then you might think well what's the best possible goal while a note that's the purpose i would say of
religious training in philosophical trains like just what the hell are you doing in the world in a one i would say well that's actually
fairly easy to also am to also lay out and this is why nihilism is a much weaker philosophical position than it might appear to be like
well there are lots of terrible things happening in the world if you are not i don't care if you are a believer in atheist or sinico the
highest sort o listen to a story like the one that you wrote read at the beginning of the of this pancaso one says well in a hundred
thousand years who the hell cares so why does it matter no one says that they listened to that not if there human they listen to that story
they think that's not good is like that's right it's not good it's not good you should do something about that cause it's it's i it's it's
self evidently not good so you might say well at least you could start your self organization by improving those things around you that
herself evidently not good and that's easy man anybody can do this you can sit down for ten minutes salonite honest with myself like a
horrible thing to do i'm going to be honest with myself how ay i'm probably doing a dozen stupid things that i could quit doing that are
making my life less more wretched and also the people around me and so you think i'll kawaehae things and you know if you really want to
know you have to want to know and you're going to get a bunch of information that you don't want to hear but you'll know it's true and you
already knew it some sense and then you can ask yourself okay that's socanis and it's not very self affirming um is there one of those
things i would i would be willing to do something about that i would actually do something about you know that i couldn't do something
about that i would do something about which is also another horrible question because susie get announced that then you have a
responsibility right it's like i can have to go do that and it sonny do want to do you don't want to do it that's why you'd be avoiding it
and so then it's right in front of you and it's like it some little trivial horrible thing that you're not get to get a pat on the back for
no one's goin to give you in a word for it and and most people would just say jesus you should have done not a long time in milyon and but
then you go do it that's kind of humility i would say and then you keep doing that and it's like there's this injunction in the new
testament against praying in public in all and it's like virtue signally so i i don't pray in public because then you go out and you show
everybody just what a great believer you are and how good you are so like me that's what you do it you not trying to get your act together
out someting you do in private at home you think okay what kind of more on am i to want stupid things in my dory and then what could i
possibly do to get rid of one of those a little bit now well anybody can do that and not associated with these great evils you know in in
this way that we already described its like your constraining your improving your character in your constraining the kinds of actions and
perceptions that you have that are going to make you sick of life and work against it because failure does that that's the cane stories
like keep screwing up man see what happens he you think that isn't going to make you bitter and if that isn't going to make you vengeful
and if that isn't going to make you work the hurt people around you or at least not to help them which is the same thing then you're just
not paying attention to every one knows that's true so well that's responsibility right and then so you take on this great task of putting
yourself together gives you life meaning not also helps you be brushes against the fact that there's lots of suffering in life and there's
lots of malevolence is like yarman absolutely it's worse than you think ye then but you can do more about it then you think and there's
nothing in it except good but you also have to take responsibility so that's the thing you got to decide if that's what you're going to do
but you don't get to wind about it if you don't cause you haven't tested it so some people don't even have to look for some grand gold in
the sky some elevated goal of what they're going to do whether it's a financial goal whether itself a a non profit going on they can look
around their bedroom and figure out what they're going to do right now well contemporaine of the things i learned from riding societies he
talked about his moral transformation in the camps and he said the first thing that transformed him to some degree was looking at people in
the camp who did refuse to do a moral things no matter what he said he ran into people like that and that just blew him away because you
already laid that out it's like these are he said they are continually choosing between their life and their conscience and they chose
their conscience like aunt and he tells them amazing stories in the good liar peleg about in a dozens of people he meant like that map like
that in their just there are stories that of paris of moral heroism under absolutely vicious conditions there he just can't believe them
you know so so not pretty amazing that he said that once he kind o figured out that there was a difference between attending to your
conscience and doing whatever was necessary to prolong your miserable existence that he started to think about that deeply and that he went
over his life with a fine tooth calmante to figure out everything he did that he knew was wrong and then to try to figure out what he could
do in the present to rectify that in all you wouldn't necessarily be able to to i tell not the right that's the right way of thinking about
it you know you you do something wrong and well maybe you can't even fix it with the person you did the wrong too but maybe there's
something else you could do that would be good enough so that you know you can take okay well at least those balance out and maybe i'm a
little bit on the side of the positive so he did that you know and that he said that straightened him out a lot and then he wrote this book
this amazing book that you know cut the communist intellectuals offered their knees and and changed the world really him that's a hell of a
thing for some one to do whose you know miserable zacatin a concentration camp at a hell of a story man and it's not the only one like it
so you don't know how much power you have where you stand even if you look weak and and and if what's around you is terrible while then you
got lots of things to do that's for sure and the renouncing themselves right there so and well and in its tiny in with evil and suffering
that is best for me because it's so real in knots like you can be sceptical about the existence of the good but if you if you open your
eyes and you do any amount of studying and even any amount of self examination you can't be sceptical about the existence of evil i don't
believe that you can there are things that read about units seven thirty one and then see how skeptical you are about evil i wouldn't
recommend that bar the way because that's the that is so horrible that you can't really read it without being dramatized it is unbelievably
horrible you read that and then you say well morality is relative sykes if you can my utter those words after reading that and then if
morality isn't relative and there is evil then there is good it at least whatever is indevil right you can whatever doings that is good it
sort of defining it by its opposite but that's okay doesn't matter it's good enough in so how do how to guide going back to the the p t s d
conversation a little bit how tis that dog sort of experienced this evil part of anomaly of the world but of themselves because they had to
do some things that they didn't want to or they didn't like doing and things that made them feel like oh there's a dark part of me that i
don't really like too much what's the what's the unworried is you got embraced that that the fact that there's darkness in the world in the
theresas in you you got her embrace that and get a hold of it not try and decide it not try and make it seem like it's not there that's the
same thing your saying right you well you know when you are in rely that they say there's no aestivalis you know on and not that you know
it's a bit of a cache but but there's there's a deep truth in that which isn't there some circumstances that you find yourself in for which
only religious language works and if you halfont do observe yourself doing something that highness edough to damage you psychologically
than you in the realm of good and evil archaiological and and unless you can start to concept olies the world in that manner you never
going to make sense out of it and so partly in de personalize it you know it's it's you that did this but it's like the capacity for evil
isn't just you it's it's part of humanity may be it's part of the structure of the cause most said you ave to stumble over it naively and
so it hurt you you know there's this old egyptian story about god nehor and he's the god of attention so he is represented by the egyptian
eye so he pays attention he's also a falkenau has great vision and flies above everything right and and ah he's also that the force that
revitalizes the dead father in ineiling but he has a fight with his evil uncle set whose a precursor to the idea of satan and that the can
tell by partly because the words a quite similar and he has a terrible battle with set whose taken over the kingdom and and is a terrible
tyrant in his killing every one and and everything going to hell and he has about with him to regain control of his kingdom and that's fine
and he's a god and so i sat and they have a fight in it a terrible fight and during the fight seth tarsoo of his eyes when he think well
that's a god right and none the last he ends up with his vision damaged his consciousness damage now he gains a different kind of sight he
gained insight right cause now he knows the nature of evil but he pays a big price for it and so you think well it's not the case for a god
how much more is it the case for a man to be damaged sikaso lutely right it's no joke to encounter malevolence and onseen that my clinical
clients too i had a client who was terrified into nightly convulsions for four years by the look on her boyfriend's face when he attacked
her it took me a long time to unpack out it was like a three months process but it was the it was cease was very naive very very very naive
cause her parents had raised her in a world where the evil queen was not allowed to visit like the parents onsweeping beauty so she was way
too sheltered and she thought that human beings were only good in now and then she saw the look on his face that indicated that he was out
to consciously harm her and he he couldn't they had a fight of physical fight and she was strong enough to to prevail he wasn't that big
that wasn't the point is shouted her world cause she did understand till that point ted some one could actually consciously want to hurt
you in oldtaown just they weren't just in a bad mood and it wasn't just because of the way they were raised and you know all those excuses
that people come up that he was not only going to hurt her but he was going to enjoy it and if you don't understand the part of you that's
capable of that then well you're you're a dangerously dangerously naive and dangerous as well because you don't know what you're capable of
so a lot of these things that you bring up um or about leadership and and you know i talk about beatership all the time and at one of the
things that you know i i heard you say um and you've talked about with with campanian other hierarchies that are out there gooding lobsters
which i know you like quite a bit ah and you know even lobsters have a a dominant hierarchy which is resistently credible since how big is
their brain lost not like it's mostly distributed through their body and he is not that big and yet it is absolutely unbelievable to to
know that the higher arrangement like its a the reason it's a symbolic reality so that would be the great father let's say the reason that
a symbolic realities because he can't see a higher archy but if you look at the world he is odont see a higher archy but chimo exactly
where each champs in the hierarchy so for example a a low ranking mature chimp won't attack a high ranking juvenile even though he could
tear him apart because he knows that that juvenal is actually delusion the juvenal was the joe juvenal plots all the other chins that will
come to his rescue right so he can't perceive the higher archy with his eyes but he can perceive the higher archy with his emotions
occashin archy is essentially eternal at at least three hundred fifty million years old and its and we perceived that all the time we look
at hierarchist we look at we and we live in hieratic of competent mostly so that's that i that's a universal truth and the fact that you
have to struggle with the fact of the higher arches also universal truth you actually see this being played out to some degree in the left
disseminees arena because reading what's happening is they they look at the high archy let's say the male hierarchy they don't attribute it
to it competence they attribute to it power and they make the presupposition that you get to the top by being the meanest most exploitive
creature possible and so these are often damaged women who've never had a good relationship with man with a man and who can't distinguish
between confidence and power as a big difference because a hierarchy that's only based on power as a tyranny but a highroads on confidence
is something that gets things done like such exactly what you want in a hires that the competent people climb the hierarchy so you can tell
whose confident at the top and you you made reference to the chimpanzee were commentaries the wall has showed quite clearly that on his
table chimp power hierarchies are based on tyranny so it is that the ugliest meanest brute of a chap gets to the top but like as soon as he
has a bad day then two three quarter as strong chimerae to pieces and the camps that managed to maintain power at the top or let's say
authority cause that's a better word just begotten a word right that's a chimp than has friends and that engages and reciprocal grooming
and he pays reasonable attention to the female and so it so interesting to see that because it shows that even at that level of biological
organization does already a morality of leadership yet what where that strikes me as so interesting and i try to explain this if people all
the time because well in the silken again you you might think the same thing well the biggest tofacea that can destroy every one else is
going to be the leader that everyone looks to and it's just not true and in fact a lot of times those guys that might be the biggest and
the strongest in the fastest there there actually arrogant as well because they've they think they can beat every one and no one wants to
work for those people and so i it happened when i first started my consulting business and and i would have you know a sea o say i can't
wait till you come in and win my people in the shade and i say you need to find somebody else's goin to whip people into shape because i
don't do that and had an they couldn't quite put together that me would i wasn't any too wiping people in the shape in the what i wanted to
actually do his sechele to lead and to lead people myself it than when you leading your not having to win people the in fact not the ending
it yet there are an indication that you're not lead exactly that we would as a leader where i the the place where i usually found myself
was i'm actually having to pull the rein back on people because they're they're going up far an away above what i actually would even want
and expect them to do they want to go even more and do more to accomplish the mission then that's where you want to get and i find it
interesting that you know you talk about that all the time that it's that is not the person with the biggest club it's not the person
that's the meanest and the most aggressive sure they might they might rise for a minute they might get some control in that happens in any
organization oh if you've got to see you that really he's just a tyrant and everyone scared of him he can make some things happen for a
little while and then all of a sudden some one says on i'o he wants to do it that way i'm going to do all sabotaging satoris your project
that you want us to get done by october thirty first but get the cat to lay boss me an you can go not and you can yell a scream but you
should listen to me when i said we needed more time and now guess where we are yet we in deliver the product were supposed to deliver so
you can tell a spell you want it's not gonna get that product to ivell and if you tyranized people badly enough they'll actually hurt
themselves to her you so you know they're willing to take a thelwell ing to take he hit to to to read claim justice let say so ye that's
really worth knowing and so one of the things that janpan out and an cause was he's a very interesting psychologist a and a and he's never
taught properly because in a most of these great thinkers were very strange people and the strangeness gets adiou of their stories and it's
ready to bad because their way more interesting when you know how strange they were and so page was all obsessed with the disjunction
between religion and science and his goal as a thinker was to reconcile the two and so to some degree he was looking for a biological basis
of morality that might be one way of thinking about erlestrete cile the idea of biological substrate with an emergent morality and one of
the things he said is okay magine to sistema in order to use compulsion you have to spend a parbile um and energy owned force and so it
makes you inefficient where as if everybody is together on the project and they'll e don't have to spend any time on compulsion because
people are compelling themselves and so that's what he called equilibrated state so nequiores ate was well we sit down and we haven't
negotiation at a real negotiation so it it has to be honest and we say okay well what the hell are we doing and every one passes that out
and we decide what we're doing and then we decide how that would be good for all about buticulario as well so if you got your family put
together properly then the whole family moves together but everybody inside moves ahead is well and so then everybody's pushing in the same
in no you know how it is what in an egotist you actually want your interests to a line with the interests of the other person because then
you don't have to worry about the integrity of the deal it's like everybody has reason to keep it to keep it thriving and the idea that
capitalism in somehow is somehow is predicated on the tyranny of the people out there at the pennicut happens when it gits corrupt but
doesn't have it at all when it's working property because deals that aren't based on mutual self interest and group interests imitato sly
have to be inforced usually with lawyers and then your done right you done at that point that's that's actually incredible so i would when
i work with comes a resort with a companies a couple of years ago maybe three or four years ago and you know they were talking about how
they needed to help their sales people accountable and that's what they needed you and they need him more account of lyin the sales
leadership underneath them need the whole all their front mycale waterson table for everything in and fall these roles and make these
numbers of calls and two heswall up things and send the follow the males and they need to get this count of tiles and going and this is the
wont when i heard this guy say this is the first time i said because i heard this a opposit were to count ability and leadership here
always sleep better accountability better convoy and it's a trick because you think about it and you said yourself well if i am in charge
of you guys and i'm the whole you accountable to make sure you do everything sposed to do well then we will successfully do what it is you
you will do cause i held your countability do it the problem is in any organization it there's too many people to oleron countable
everything that is posed to be doing certainest osino and so you could take one group in the lessees you got one group or you have to hold
them accountable for everything that you do and you and you try and do that purses a group where people know what they're supposed to do
and they want to go and do it i go with which team is going to win and he aquirements do them off like a tatwine to do is get them to one
do with him young athletes ip nastiest xenodochy rite i mean look if you get people to track everything they do it takes the longer to
track a tented it plus they hate it they hate it because they're not being trusted in its host terrible dull administrative work and it
just kills people who are actually productive because the their driven crazy by that it's like leave me the hell alone so i can do my work
you know what and so yes so so there there's something that here is an interesting little fact that that i think is really cool i found
this out ah this is from the psychological literature so i've been interested in how to increase people's motivation for a long time you
know and am and hers a nice literature on that and and part of it was as was created by a late latemar carry laid them in edwin lock and
near looking at goldstone's out well they described it as a means to improve business prodiit and so what they imagine that you have two
teams and you get them to set goal say and one team set schools for their corporate brought it divity and another team set scoloraro and
then you match them head to head over some period of time and see which one comes a head and what happens is people who set goals for their
life beat the people who set goals for the company and so that's relatedness ride other literatures that support that kind of a partisan it
it sits very very worth while thinking that through because what you want if you come i structured properly the want people in it who have
a life right so there amanat things that they think are valuable because they're just not going to be motivated period unless there aiming
at things they think are valuble and then you want they are loyalty to do the company to be nested inside that so they have to see that
working there no matter what it is that they're doing in an out you know often jobs are repetitive and dull and difficult and and
challenging in all of that or you wouldn't be paid to do them right they're not all fun and games ah but if you can see that the less
intrinsically interesting things that you required to do are related in some directly intelligible way to goals that you regard as valuable
then that tags those activities with this doping kick that we were talking about earlier so you need this hierocles right to like here's
what i'm doing with my life here is why my job is important to that or maybe it isn't an then you have to quit and go find a new job but
that's fine but you know cause you might discover that too and so we started uh trying to form a lisettes winataree same time that i also
realized something though i never recovered from realizing i think so i teach students usually for this class it was third forty students
and so this is out the university of toronto oprey smart kids it's a hard university to get into and their pretty discipliner actually
quite conservative all things considered and ah i was teaching them about stories and about the fact that our life is a story with a bold
and a purpose and an a beginning point and and am i was encouraging them to develop their own stories so i had them right in autobiography
and they read got into that that was quite amazing till identify you know to break their life in to eat pork and then to describe the
important episodes and each heap palumbo positive and negative and what they might do to reduce the possibility of the negative in the
future and to capitalize on the positive on which is the purpose of memory by the way and then also to write a plan for the future and so
we we formalize that so the plan is okay first of all you have to get yourself in the right mind set and the mind said is your trying to
take care of yourself like you would care for some one that you cared for that's hard mind said to get into because people like their pants
better than they like themselves often and then you have to have a vision and so the vision would be well okay three to five years down the
road if your friendship network sore configured properly what without look like if you were pursuing the career that would be appropriate
for you and sustaining for you what would that look like haware going to educate yourself harry going to take care of yourself mentally and
physically what do you want for an intimate relationship and how are you going to handle temptations like alcohol and drug abuse cause they
take people down pretty frequently so all you have to think about okay what could not be like if you had what you need it not some wild
fantasy but but realistic and what you need it so that's the first part of men all gay now right for twenty minutes about what your life
could be like three to five years down the road it's all this came together and then now do the afficit so imaginal your weaknesses and all
the ways that you can go down the wrong path and in a maginative the upper hand then imagine where you are in three to five years so then
you get a polarity a it's like not this and i and yes this so you can run away from the things you don't want and you could run towards the
things you do want not gets your anxiety behind you instead of in front of you right because maybe you're fingolds ething difficult in your
afraid of it and then you think lif i don't do this i'm going to end up there it's like cayta so terrible that this little terrible is
nothing so and then in the next part of the exercise you turn that into an implemental plan you know and you write about while your life
would be better and while your family's life would be better and lyocoming life would be better so i like fully articulated than leave
casita ten thousand university students with that now and threadies and we've increased the probability that they'll stay in university by
about thirty per cent and raised their great point average about the same and its work best for men who are most who were doing the least
well so in calends were non western estin minority men and they improve their port performance enough to actually slightly exceed the dutch
nowhow who are out the talk by the wise over two years the yat was unbelievable it just blew us away a psychological intervention to cure
what is hypothetical a sociological problem and so and so that that's a good example of how and it is what what bloomy away but i whispers
considering this as i had all these students twenty one years old and i realize that no one had ever sat them down not even once in their
entire career in education i said okay who do you want to be i what sort of person is it that you want to be not not job it's like
character what you want your life to be like what should it be like and what shouldn't it be like and like right about that seriously like
your life depends on it because it does and anthem i thought well that so we are winterward isn't our education system set up to help
people with that cause it's like that's kind of obvious you know it's like what are you doing and why and then i did some reading partly
from john gato who done some interesting work looking at the history of the education system in it was a derivation of the prussian
education system back in the lady ten hundreds and it was designed to produce obedient obedient well it was partly soldiers but it was
partly workers oionos definitely isolde's case that was the transition when they they had the transition take place at that time as well
with the moved away from centralized command after they got beat by napoleon and it is he never made were constantly trying to fight
towards that direction where the soldiers would not just be obedient because they realized that that is not what they actually wanted they
don't they find lestore duty and of word war one and if they would a done it earlier might turn the tide to war but that was what you know
that's what world war two the boots cragin and total decentlie command an element is going out and making things happen in finding gaps in
the defences in the tacking them as opposed to your just going to wait and till you told what to do dread that was the the german way and
be centralized command so i haswell at well a competent speed obedience right so you united people under a goal and then you let them act o
taniel you got to get them you gotta not sell them the gold that's not right you know what you have to do is you have to go in and talk to
them and discover what the goal is of the enterprise and what it is that fires people up and that ready does work in korinth idea that
capitalism is essentially crooked and it's the people who are who are pulling the wool over other people's eyes who win is like well in a
now and then there's a criminal action and the person gets away with it so to speak although people get away with a lot less than they
think but most of the time within a functional company the better have your people on board or they will do exactly what you said they'll
do ellen eighty per cent of their time sabotaging the company and i i again something i learned for working with a corporal world and he
was working with a corporal where i reflected on what i did and and was talking to a eliautes leader some point as a weerleeer stand why
they're doing what they're doing and so in easewood that in tasso key that's make sense and so then he gets up in front of his team and he
says you know well the reason why we're doing this as we were i improve our profitability es accompany an you know he's that down and we
talked afterwards he said i didn't do a good job because no leverania no actually doing you miss it and then i started explaining to them
better because i learned that what you have to explain he has to be a thread of wi that goes all the way through the corporate reason but
that why has to come back down to the individual contributories that when when we do better as a company when were more profitable to
company we can put more money in or in marketing and we can produce stuff cheaper because will do it on a more maskaline can lower prices
and then we can actually hire more people nessino make you move up in this command here in you're going to make more money were to some
more stuff and you're going to be bigger bones so you doing this the reason why you're doing it because then you can achieve those
litigation to by that house in that car and send your kid to school so there's a big difference you need to make sure that the people
understand why they're doing it not for the corporate reason not for the mission reason but for for whites and help them they act same
thing even said arline also really helpful too if you you know your corporation has a hate to use the word vision because that you know
turned into a buzzard but in no it's often that you're working in a company where worth while things are happening exciting and worth while
things you know when your your your trying to will make something better at a lower price let's say and so there is the the the heroism
let's say of producing a product that's going to have a positive impact on the world and you need to know how your small actions are tied
with that greater goal and then there's the financial self interest as well and and it definis if you don't if you can't tell your workers
that story then either your company is fundamentally corrupt because that isn't the true story it's like you're actually working so that i
can rapatel the company over the next four years and take all the value out of it and run as i now see is do that is not time to time yes
or you don't understand how the company works and you can't tell the story which means your basically and confident so but well yet people
are not wired up so that they will work without knowing why unless you beat them and then if you beat them you don't don't be thinkin that
that's victory no so the temporary victor on it's a also something really good to know about marriage it's like you can ever win in
argument with your wife like you got if you only lived with her for one day laighton see a later yes like no no she's there the next day
lanshes beesome mbers that she does she does remember that ye may be even more than you remember it in onias might be that she was right in
you just out argued her so you know and that something that's really worth knowing too because sometimes you know you have an argument with
wallets with your wife and she's got something to say and it's not very well articulated same could be true for you and so you can just
brush it aside but you don't want to brush it aside because maybe there's something there and if you don't address it then it's not my gets
going to go away managing so maybe you have to help her formulate her argument which is really annoying you know it cause he want to win
you have in this dispute like i want to win it well you not women that gave your winendale well i think about it as the game of games you
want to win the set of games that stretch all her aline the long warm yet that's right cladimant that little battles knocked about at her
that i i don't you should not try me right or if you're right everybody knows is fine but there's the worst thing to do is rub it in and
being in right and you're rooney and do that a hundred times and then like wile year the year that winter and she's the loser and then not
scratches now you're married to a loser i mean you know that if you do that a hundred thousand times then your marriage is over and then
and men now be held to pay you can be assured of that ah i got asked the other day um what is the biggest problem in america and i thought
i hadn't been as securely i think in some good questions but time like you i could the same questions over n over n over again but i got
asked what's the biggest problem in america and i thought about for a second and this may or may not be right but i thought it was at least
thought provoking i said that the biggest problem that we have in america is that we don't have any big problems and if you look at us in a
war two during the depression during times where we've got major major problems the country coneens in it and gets behind it self and joins
together and you know i i talked about you know that we we leave in a bubble here a canope up about as well and and that's good let a i
want there to be above all just like i want my family to live in a bubble and i almost want i almost want my daughter to really really
think it's a real proud bloom that there is not a strong wifie in her bedroom and so sometimes it takes longer to the iiiie kind of
succeeded as a dad if that's her professes that as a problem that you know it takes a little extra thurses a longer buffering time on some
of her net with right of donna good job if that's a foe because you know god can only imagine what kind of problems people really ask but
sometimes i feel like in america and really in the west as a whole the problems is that we don't have any major promise of thou it's the
wife in our bedroom that we're getting crazy about and and and and wanting to lash out about an i guess my point here is that do we as
individuals do we need straggle there to keep us focused on the right things and as a country or as a culture de need to have some level of
struggle before we start looking at things that don't matter in turning them into things that we perceive as actually matter again well you
know a couple of things about that car congar wrote about that bacon the late eighteen fifties thereabouts and he said there will come a
time when the best thing that you could do for people would be to make things more difficult right that's a thing because every one's
working so hard and making things easier that will be no come a time when when there's a felt sense for difficulty and i think we're at
that point now and i think that's why this message of responsibility and truth is echoing so nicely among a particularly among young man
because every time i talk about that in my public talks the room go silent and that's really interesting and you know people are dead
focused it and so like innouie and freedom it's like truth and reportin for truth and responsibility and there's something noble about that
and we have to be able to talk about nobility for god only knows how long on so i do think that's the case and i think it's a unwill am
james said that what we need is a moral equivalent to war so something that is serious but that is hopefully not as destructive and so i
really like that ideas well and so but i think that we are at that cave at that point if people would open the resale but because we have
this unbelievable culture this technological culture that does provide the degree of protection that you described that's a anong miracle
right it absolutely unbelievable that any of this work at all and it could easily not work and if it didn't work there would be hell to pay
and and to keep it working and to keep it moving forward especially with what's going to come over the next ten years with with with
artificial intelligence and the sorts of things that were were learning and inventing we better have a rack together and so i think that
you can get that war like sense if you start to if you start onderstand that you can take on your life like that that's also why think it
so necessary to see the world as a battle ground in some sense between good and evil but you don't put the evolutive like some of its
outside obviously but that's not your initial concern your initial concern is to get your act together right to take on the burden of being
to bear the suffering but you said you found that when you went out into combat that you know you might have been weary of death which is
perfectly reasonable but that you aren't afraid of it to the point where it would paralyze you butsus ful thing to know you know because it
means that you are different than you thought you were you know because people are afraid of suffering and death and especially if they
been completely and constantly sheltered from it but you can discover an watso do that if they actually confronted the big intolerated far
better than they thought i mean think about all the people that work in like palantokans it know or infentors for that matter like their
confronting death on and on going basis and yet every day they go to work so people are tough and so i think there is a responsibility that
everybody can take up and i think the responsibility is something like well we need to decide if we're goin to collectively and
individually tilt the world towards having or tilted towards hell we saw what hell was like in the twentieth century how could be back on
our door step and no time flat we should have learned that and it's necessary for people to understand the relationship between the
individual actions and the direction of culture as a whole you know look at that diantha aripple you know that was one guy and he probably
increased polarization in the united states by like five per cent or something and all a dozen take very many individual actions of that
pathological sort to tip things in a very terrible direction so we one of the things i've been telling the people who've been watching my
videos and in the live conversations is that ye have take yourself seriously after now that you're a monster and that your capable of
terrible things and that its and that you have a responsibility to understand that to incorporate it to constrain it and to discipline it
and then to work for the alleviation of suffering and the constraint of malevolence and if you understand that then it can tern your life
into a noble enterprise and then you have some self respect which beats the hell out of self esteem in my estimation so and i don't think
that that's a difficult message for people onderstand i think they know that in a fundamental lean i think at the moment there starving to
death for it the subordinate principle so the the the thing when you talk about this elevated state this elevated thing at i i think i've
figured out that what your talking about is essentially truth that this that to you sort of thee what we need to do is deal in truth on a
daily basis in our olives and and in the lives walpole around us i think it's to things like ninnies to classical christian morality and un
ibri it up because it's sort of at the substructure of western ethics there's two things there's truth and love and and i know both of
those words are even hard to say because they be mouthed to death but but they have in some sense they have a deep technical meaning in a
few know that then it kind of reinikes their power and love is the decision that being is worth while and should and that you should
struggle to support and approve it and that's not a trivial thing because being is rife with suffering and i every one dies every one gets
sick like it's it's brutal it's brutal and it's easy to turn against it and so the idea that you're going to voluntarily accept
responsibility for that assumed that its good or act as if its good and try to improve it is no trivial matter and that means you have to
scout the resentment of the arrogant and the deceit in it primarily and an an it sort o based on this idea i would say is like well life is
very hard obviously but we're not doing everything we could to make it better and were often doing things to make it worse so even if it is
suffering which is true we have no idea how much we could immertate if we all put our efforts into it and so that a genuine question like
ye there's reason to shake your fist and curse god i mean every one ends up in a situation like that some one they love gets a terrible
illness and disentegrated before the eyes you know i may be there a really good person and they've done nothing you would think of to
deserve that and you know that terrible fate is visited on them it's very difficult not to get cynical and angry under such circumstances
but then while that takes you down a very bad road if you do that but it doesn't it doesn't it doesn't change the fundamental question it's
like if your life isn't everything you think it should be you have to ask yourself if you're doing everything you can because you actually
don't get to make a judgment about the structure of being until you do everything you can and i would say that's love essentially that's
the decision and then truth is the best the best strategy with regards to that attainment and how how could it be otherwise like you're
going to contend with reality you bloody well better know what it is it on truth isn't your grandmother's in o your your your two tight
laced grandmothers moral finger wagon it's like the truth of existences brutal and bitter and so to be able to face that and and to admit
to the things that you are and to and to communicate them with other people especially in an intimate relationship it's like that that's no
cowardly morality that's not the morality of cowardice quite the contrary you know need you said you could assist the spirit of a man by
determining how much truth he could tolerate slight that's that's the right that's the right way of thinking about truth will you open this
whole part cast with sub truth pikolans to hear that you know and people think all that so terrible that they don't think well could i be
what of those ice is guise so i i can tell you if you are bitter enough especially if you hate women in now cause they rejected you because
you're such eisegonto useless that no woman in her right mind would look at you twice on oh that'll generate plenty of bitterness in your
soul and if you don't think that you could act like that under those conditions then you not even watching your own fantasies so truth in
the service of the betterment of being at something like that and that's dat's enough to give your life meaning i don't care where you
start like i have this kid come and visit me i will back and he never left his home state and he was a eneas nineteen and he was over
protected and over sheltered a news a smart kid and so of course he also thought that the world really hadn't i appreciated his gifts which
is very common feeling for smart kids who who are getting anywhere right they get really angry about that and then he decided that he was
going a move out how his house and he took a job as a dish washer an said he tried to do a good job as a dishwasher slike good that's some
humility it's just a dish washing job but you don't you can be a good dishwasher and then the restaurant runs better and then it's kind of
fun and song as the people you're working with her half decent you can make good social latinship and then you can learn to be social which
was happening to him and then maybe they let you be assured order cook it on and you got a bit of a cloth and then you have a bit of money
and the ever little independence in its alone better than being at home and being bitter and resentful and immature you know it's just a
dish washing job well that's the wrong way of thinking about it it's like it's it's the first door it's open to you in on any came up to
tronante be not of his home state so is a big deal for him to come to another city when he first came to talk to me it was outside of one
of my lectures couldn't even speak he was so nervous because he hath pretty high level to social anxiety she was tongue tied and i invited
them to come over to my house to talk to him cause i knew there was something up with him and he told me this story you know when i thought
well you know that's the beginnings of a heroic journey he was able to humble himself enough so that you know if you are a low if you are
in a low place it's a low door that's going to open and you might think i'm too hideka through that low door young said carl young said
people modern people don't see god cause they don't look low enough i really like that idea but that's it if you are in a low place the
opportunity that presents you itself us going to be low and it's going to be very tempting to you cause your arrogant resentful to say
while that's not good enough for me like well you have an alternative if if you don't have an alternative then and in shop is up and it's
the right trajectory you know and so that humility that humility it's like your low i take what you take what's given to you and you see if
you can make it work and the thing is that works way faster than people think even a work as a dish washer when i was a kid you know for ye
an for ear or so and it was really hard to begin with because i didn't know what i was doing in the german chaff was kind of a tough guide
just let me flounder around for two weeks to see if i would quit so i was there till like three in the morning and i was thirteen i think i
couldn't wash all these damned dishes i thought it was impossible i told my dad at one point of sad i don't know if i can do this is like
i'm working as hard as i can and they keep piling up you know but i didn't stop and then the german cook in all who would be treating me
pretty harshly at one day he said okay i'll show you how to do this and then he showed me how to organize the dishes and everything it is
like that was not no problem i could do it like ten per cent of the time so that i cleaned up the rest of the kitchen i had a good time
mucking about with the shafts and we played around the lot back there and i ended up working as a short order cook and i learned to cook
and all of that and he was a good part of my adolescence but but the thing is so the thing is is that those trivial jobs it the conception
of their triviality that makes them trivial they're not trivial not if you do the right and if you are round people of any sense you know
sensible people are always looking around for other people who could do things right the face see you trying to do things right the
probability that thelon a door for you is virtually a hundred per cent cause it's kind of rare you know so they are going to be skeptical
to begin with to see got approve your metal let's say but as soon as you do they'll think o cale'll give this kid's little with more
opportunity and see what happens and you know do not think that's how the world works is to be extraordinarily cynical because that is how
it works in in a functioning society the adnor ward business is all the time and there is an idea anybody that is just above normal
confidence in anything if that's going to try i that's goin to put effort in taste love those people and those people are going to do well
and you're absolutely right that doors are absolutely going to open for him if they ah do what they're trying to do to the best of their
belting and doing a company jaball the other thing that interesting is what happens to people who are trying because one apes to them is
like there in a place where there's a thousand doors in front of the tatter invisible they don't know the doors are there and they could
either be opened her clothes and so if there onto these people who is going above and beyond the call a duty unless they organization is
entirely corrupt right that happened sometimes then there are people who are watching in those star to open these invisible doors and then
all of a sudden the person has opportunities in front of them and they don't even know why some of the time right because some one said in
a gave a pauseie word to some one else and said to all you can take a look at this kid and and so these doors open and then the people who
are in there grudgingly and and bitterly it's like people watch that and they're the people who are the gate keepers and they just close
the doors and then the person looks up and is nothing in front of them there's no open doors at all and they had in them they curse god in
o for making such a miserable casemate no you just don't understand what you just don't understand what happened is like the fruits of your
bitterness wahpatone bitterness manifested fruit you don't even know it you've delimited your options in a terrible way and you closed you
know your your your walking down your walking between cliff walls and they're getting closer and closer and closer together and then you'll
be stuck and you'll think how they held the this happen and it happened because you didn't you didn't avail yourself of the opportunities
that presented themselves to you so in all that's horrible but that's that's how it is i did ask a quite often um you don't pisition i
should have gotten promoted what side now or this person isn't carrying their load and and and there they may think i should do their work
what should i do now and ill and answer ye sooacide the actuated the workhouse that all day long beadon kitely you will you do an to do
your job that's fine i'll get yeomanly i got i just answer question where it somebody said that the guys a friend of mine and he's not
carrying his load watch i do and i saw what you hope what's going on at home you easy going through a divorce as he got issues kitsie how
about you help him and say hey when he let take it off your pitlight now because i do monsters months you might be the person that needs
help you might be the person with a sick child but regardless that may be he's just as lazy maybe shouldn't be your friend and maybe
eventually won't be your friend but none the less the solution is the same if you don't want to do your work at final bethrothal such a
funny thing at exactly right because you know what you want to do and in your job as make yourself indispensable right in the way you make
yourself indispensable is by being indispensable and the way you do that is by doing a bunch of things that if they're not done catastrophe
curse it that's exactly right so if there's some one around you and there abdicating your reperrehensiblest and you can pick it up it's
like what an opportunity in now it's you think well i'm not going to get credit for it it's like well first of all there's lots of
different forms of credit but you learn and then when the company shrink and their looking at hookey you know they think o a turns out
you're doing all certosa do without you that's not all we expect it we can't do without you here some more things you could do you know and
then near also in a position to bargain you can say well look canoeman order for me to keep doing this level of responsibility you know i
need to be paid more because i have other options or or because it's just or because that will make me more efficient but then you've got
some power too because they need you and so indispensability and that's power indispensabilities power not tyranny so now am obviously we
started off talking about some very negative stuff with with eyes and an you've touched on this a little bit already but i i i want to make
sure we hit this hard enough and that is for people too to live a better life dovelike that their proud of to live a life that they what
that that when they die they don't regret the life that they live than for me i mean i i i tell the will displace freedom that the hard
work the doing the right thing um then tell people to write down what you're supposed to do the next day before you go to bed and then you
wake up and do the things that you're supposed to do with things that you said you were supposed to to things that you actually know are
going to make you hellfires and smarter and stronger and and make you more money and and move you forward and help your femori those things
down and then you go do em and i'm not essentially you've draw that out on a large scale with and you've described this somewhat with the
experiment that you did with with people writing down what their spoke to do not jest to morrow but what their life that's the future
offering program and that's that's really um be immensely beneficial for totateeta nly seems to have been an it's at self authoring do calm
and we put up a a discount cold freer for your listeners it's willing am and so they can get twenty per cent of it and it is the system
allows you to write an autobiography and to analyze your personality flaws and virtues and to right a future plan and you can do all of
those or one of them ah but yeah it's it's extremely useful because um one of the things you can be virtually certain of in life is that
you don't get something you don't aim at and one of the things that's interesting about that is often people will keep their goal fuzzy has
the one of the problems with specifying your goals as you specify your failures right if the gals really father you're not sure when you
fail and not then you can full yourself you know really but you can tonokete but you make your go sharp and clear then while first of all
then you know what to aim at and what interesting is you know your brain is set up so that it reorganizes the world around your aims and
that's not a volaret about this and twelve rules for life a quite extensively in that not a metaphor like we don't see much of the world
cause does the law of the world and there isn't much of us and so we see what we aim at we aim with their eyes here's an example so a great
aids don't really have much of a white in their eyes but human beings do and the reason for that is that we evolved to detect where every
one else is looking and so if i can't tell where you're looking i don't know what you're up to and then well over time that means i can't
read you as well in more remote likely to get into dispute and wonder or the other faisoie ly to get killed but also means that your your
probability of finding a successful mate decreases so we evolved to have this very very visually evident eye and so when we're looking the
each other were always looking at our anadore because then we can tell where some one is pointed and then we can tell what they're up to
and so were hunting creatures like were aiming at a moving target and trying to track it all the time and so you have to specify your
raiment the future oughting program helps people specify the raiments more than one name it's like the of a high estein which you might say
is to be a good person and then i would say well there's a there's a moral laborat ed name than that it's like you want to be able to
constrain my level and said work to decrease suffering it something like that that's the highest dame and and then and then you have to be
compose that into the things you do each day so that there is a definite connection between all the micro actions and the macerated and not
gives dignity to what you do it in so in all if you read at home with your kids what what are you trying to do will you trying to raise
them to be the kind of moral agents that will work to constrain the evil in the world and to reduce suffering it's like an that's what
you're doing when you are changing a diaper if you're doing it carefully and with some respect and some love like it's a major league deal
to be doing that and god o nos will your kids can to be in now he could be the kid that shoots up calladine he could be stolen that
wouldn't be so good or he could be some one or she could be some one who is a positive benefit to the world you know and so every child is
a whole new realm of of of possibilities and so there's dignity in that if you understand that so the future ought thring program anyways
helps people lay out a plan and always suggest to people that they do it badly because you not going to do it perfectly and if you get
perfectionistic it's going to stop you you know when you first start to plan your probably only to to be about twenty per cent right but
zero the difference between zero and twenty per cent is a mansone found with our research that even people spent an hour on it benefit
substantially in their ability to stick to what their next plan this and when you now you mentioned something earlier too just just a bit
ago yes about about scanlan ye so what a tithings i tell people so you say right down right you're going to do the next day before you go
to bed that's good because then you you've got a direction set when you wake up in the morning he so but i've told people to learn to use
the schedule and people often hate schedules because they act as their own tyrants right they say we have to do this unpleasant thing and
then there's another unpleasant thing you have to do and then avdotia unpleasant thing and you knew that for both three days and you think
tallis on not doing that you know and you fall off the waggon that isn't what you're supposed do with the schedule you're supposed to use
it to design the days that you would like to have if you were taking care of yourself and so some of that is in now you wake up in the
morning and you think here's five things i have to do that if i don't do my life will be worse so i paying bills for example or or or
taking out the garbage it's like you have to do those because otherwise things degenerate she got to put some of those in the schedule
because otherwise to morrow is worse than to day and not a bad to jectoit you also want to build in things you know you got out act in some
sense like you dealing with a relatively recalcitrant nine year old like so well here's some things ye have to do but here's some things
that if you do you could reward yourself with and if you get the balance there between all the gation and reward right then you'll find
that your motivated to do the things and and that's where you want to do you want to do that so it sustainable across days and weeks and
months and so you got to you gotta treat yourself like a good boss would treat a valued employe and not like a tyrant would treat a slave
cause the slave will rebel and you know people say well i i don't follow through on my plans it's like well a there probably not very well
formulated and maybe you doing them because of an external moral obligation or something not really your plants right and be your acting
like a tyrant and a slave and that's a bad relationship to have with yourself so you you want to treat yourself with some well the same way
that's the golden rule right it treat yourself as you would treat other people as you would have them sorry treat other people as you would
like to be treated works both ways you also treat yourself like you treat other people properly so that's a necessary thing in often people
don't do that but the scheduling is really important feats when i tell people because when i first started talking about the people with
start scheduling their day and they would go to no man it by minute everything if he comes in the unabating that dermot for reasons number
one is no one wants to have a day like that where everything that you do throughout the day minute to minute socks thing they want to do so
has what after three days he say i'm not doing this any more i isono fun and and so and the same thing with the task lest people would push
those off is there not on the schedule so yet they put it on the schedule but then the thing i detailing people as you need a need i number
one schedule and the space and there were casting are going to take longer and in our gottesthal may be frustrated see you scheduled that
things are only just empty or not going to do anything for for this hour before lunch you don't schedule anything and not going to do
anything if he do anything that and the other thing is you schedule things that you actually want to do in their advent you go and execute
the thing that you want to do you want to work out every day you know you should what maybe if you'd make if something you enjoy and you
schedule if you enjoy going pickin your kids up from school on tuesdays and thursdays because that's when they do the running club than you
schedule that in there said you can go and do that thing that you want do so you don't just schedel the things that so you schedule a good
things too and dispinsed to my sanial time if you want to have more free time which is what people want that ye have more discipline time
management and you will end up with more free time i promise you i promise you you will the other thing is thinking about and i i i
couldn't i i just kind of occurred to me now as people always tell people ah you come up with the goal if i am ready now in the year to get
there and i was you know as you were talking about future offering what you said earle describing the program in its infancy what became
future offering is i was and well how do you get people actually this well what you in bed it in the program is the fear of what happens if
you don't do these things and where you're going to end up and people forget that people forget where they end up if they don't do it their
spot do in life and i explain this to to my kids that when you look around and you see people better doing things which are self evidently
not desirable things to be doing in life whether your a bom or whether doing as you know i was a dishwasher as well and i even interesting
story about that no i'll tell that at some point about a scottish girl named rose and she was older than me i was thirteen and after you
know several weeks of washing dishes this use may be seventeen or eighteen and and any way to make a long story short of entertained you
want one to let go to a movie or something with me cause i'd like to go to a movie with you and she looked at me in ceased jocko you have a
seton to perorate rain i know you're out there somewhere he broke my heart sister but i washed isis and that's a good thing for a thirteen
year old to do but when you're eighteen okay now it's a little bit you want to have moved up to be the short order cook and by the time
you're twenty five you want to be in charge of the whole kitchen and by the time you are thirty you want to may be run the night time shift
and and that's a good progression and that's good would you want to be thirty five and forty forty years old out at the dish washing stage
you don't want to be there and i splain to my kids because you can see people that are at that stage in their life and sure there's a
chance that maybe they had some hardship that came along that that that hit them and it put them in this position and now they have to
build back up again and a waiting for those windows of arbor doors a opportunity open up and that's okay but a lot of times it's because
they didn't but weren't retint make good decisions they didn't do the best job that they could and so they end up in these positions that
they they should be in and it's an italy kids that those are real people that that are in those positions like working a leave this
restaurant and were going to go on or when a do we do that guesno be there for five more hours cause it's nine o'clock he's got a clean
everything when they get to ecole there for five more hours than he's got a map before and he'll be doing to morrow the same thing he was
doing it in that the same thing but a real person and i hope it's a fourteen year old i hope it's a sixteen year old level patient eighteen
year old but i hope it's not a forty eight year old but there are forty eight year old to end up in that position and what you do in this
program is you teelan that you can end up there and actually being a forty eight year old this washers actually pretty positive too to wear
some hand hold definitely which is addicted to drugs addicted to alcohol or or or whatever will never any kind of has a sense of where they
would end up if they let things augur down you know and everybody has there there are specific weaknesses that that their faults would
exploit in on some people with end up homeless and some people with end up with a physical illness or a psychonic illness and some people
with end up addicted and some people with age and depth cruel but everybody kind of nose where they would head cave seen it they they've
seen it rise up and it's really useful to be terrified of that as if it's a possibility not to have an inhalation its like okay lenana if
its possibility it's a possibility at the teeble polly out yeh yeh yeh well i am all you have to do to get there is do nothing i kill just
drift there all by yourself so not only is it a possibility tackle rather high possibility and so you have to make that realistic enough
which weans that you have to take an inventory of your weaknesses let say you have to make that realistically not so your actually
terrified of it because then that that's a great motivation in in my clinical practice people are often faced with tough decisions like
well i know i'm not happy at my job and i'm afraid to leave it sir fearnought you know that big deal came how afraid are you of not leaving
it let's lay that out because you know one of the the tulieries of human thought is that you do get used to the devil you know and then you
go down play but it's very often that staying in the same place will do you in but much worse than the risk that you'll take you know an i
mean on practical with us i said look if you're going to stop your jaw let's let's have a clue about this right get your save together
right start seeing what other options you have cause you don't want to just step off a cliff that's not helpful am organize yourself so
that you've got enough strength to go through the process of finding a new job you know you can have to get used to be an interview you got
to take that through maybe we could practice that we got to say yourself up for it but you really want to think through the cost of the
action and that something people generally don't do it this is also one of the useful am features of having a tragic view of life let's say
cause most of the time often your screwy their way but you get to pick which one had not a big deal it's like there's there's risk some
both paths and their major risks and that's actually free in because you know well there's trouble both ways so that free the or because if
you think well this is the safe path and this is the dangerous path while then you not going to take the dangerous path but if you think
well i've got danger a or danger be and this is where i would rather be my future while that's way better i've had like many many clients
that i help with their careers and and we do exactly doubt it's like you know okay what our goal our goal is to triple your salary in four
years i think well that's not possible it's like well we'll try for doubling but you don't know it's possible you gotta let's get it
together and you got to get over being afraid of looking for a job you got to get over being afraid of being interviewed youve to put
yourself together so that you've you've got off shoes and then you got a start to push you don't know you might be able to do it well it's
so it's quite surprising how frequently that works you know that assumed the people are trying it there confident you know it's not this
isn't me waving a magic wonder anything like that and it takes a lot of work you know like you're goin to switch jobs you might have to i
figure fifty to one failure to success it something like that and is useful to know the baseline as well retasting for a job as can be very
disheartening unless you know the base lines so like well ye fifty inch fifty resumes for one interviewed don't take it personally it's
just how it is so it's not that you're as screw up it's that there way more resumes than there are jobs and and uh that can also and then
you know don't look for a job for eight hours a day because you only build do that for three days and then you'll die look for a job an
hour a day if you already have one for an hour redor half an hour a day for three months to resume a day three resumes a day you'll find a
jaw it'll take wagonero my clients took like three years you know to get her first break but then right after that she got another one and
then right after that she got another one but she stuck it out and you know it was brutal tail she had interviews and they didn't go you
know they wish she'd work in india that she didn't like it the farabutti also say the people like you know generally stay in your job cause
you're way more likely to get the new job when you have a job now so i was tell people yet i get the same exact thing ay i'm in this job
it's miserable i don't like it a one alive to morrow but i don't have the courage and i'm said actually it's goin to take you more courage
to stay in your current job formulate and existat save up money start putting together a better resume get some technical skills it you
might not have right now do all that while you're suffering in this job that you don't like so that when you make the transition which will
come it'll be the right way and you won't end up like you said jumping off of a cleffs makes you hopeful even in the terrible job trecase
you know then you've got some hole and like hope is a big deal you can you can put up with a lot of misery if you've got hope but if you
think i'm miserable to day i'm going to be miserable to morrow and next year i'm going to be older and just as miserable it's like that
that's not good but if you think well i've got a plan you that that's a whole different story and as a good idea for those veterans at are
out there don't just get out formulate a plan figure out where you're going to go and have that in place and then you get out you step in
dearie like to see the military use this future othering program for for people who are deconditioning because you need you know your idea
that you need the next mission is that that's exactly right you know life is like a series of mission forward you know and nested in
something greater than that i think but you you do you need to have a plan and you know it he got a got a hold the plan loosely you know so
because you're going to make mistakes formulating it but in the way it works basically as ye at something in the future and so then you
start moving forward and as you move forward you a crew more experience and more information sometimes that through failure doesn't matter
but you not stand in the same place so you're actually growing even if you're even if you doing badly if you learn from those mistakes and
so then you move towards the goal and your perspective shift and then you might have to mortify the goal of it because now you're a little
smarter you think well that of a gold wasn't helpful as layest was as it moved you an inch farther ahead and so you know you'll be kind o
approached the final goal in his zigzag manner and this as in the eggs get less extreme as you get closer to the final ball but you have to
do a lot as the exiting to begin with see god to give yourself that space for error that's why there's an arch dipodia m let the fool is
the precursor to the saviour which is a really aniceta with comedians he median sir fool and they tell the truth right so so in the
courtest the only person who gets to tell the truth and a fool and take a risk as well and you need to take risks in order to progress so
that's the idea but also means that you have to allow yourself to make the mistakes that are necessary while you progress and are beat
yourself to death about it and so that's also really helpful because it means that when your formulating your plans you can say well this
is the best i can do now subject to revision so i great that's good enough really it's good enough i just has to move you to the next place
that's interesting casibus ly at one a ton of military planning and i would see guys that would get so wrapped around trying to make the
perfect plan and it would take them so long to plan that by the time they're ready to extol the whole target had shifted and things had
moved in the battle field change their not readin to do this any more so you need to come up with a polite you said you need to come up
without good idea of what you're going to do and how you going to do it and then you start to move and and and as you move you start to see
things far different angle and you gain more intelligence and you can another report noising ships a little bit but your adapting in your
closer to the target anyway a very very unreal and it is it is so also the the idea that you're gaining information cause you might say
well i don't know what to do with my life so maybe i should just stay here and figure it out so like no all if you stay there then all you
know is what you know well you're there and you don't know enough cause you can't make a plan so make a bad plan even if the even if it's
actually a plan that works out so that its opposite of what you want if you move towards that plan you are going to know more clearly that
it's opposite of what you want and as soon as you know that it's opposite you know i should be going in the other direction so like that
that's not that's not a retreat that that's advance and a thing is people were active creatures rois navigating through territory right we
can't be sitting in one place and waiting while he can't give you get old to you even if you're sitting in one place the place is changing
on you and that's just what you said that when you said you don't people make a detailed plan in them in the environment will shift on them
and on future offering yeh do you do you go back in and adjust our goes yet as i zeherit's a it's something that you can can you up day and
i would say do not dated two often right because then you end up in the situation you were just describing but it be idea would probition's
you damn plan implemented for four months or six months and then go back and see what needs to be updated you know and you'll find that
you'll you've done a lot of what you said you would and so then it'll need to be reformulated so and and that's also very self affirming i
suppose is the right it it helps you understand that there is more to you than you think which is actually the case you know there is more
to people than they think that that's one thing that interesting about human beings in so you can put yourself you can you can stand up to
things you afraid of em in now a measured doses and you find that you grow to be larger than the thing that you are afraid of and you know
that's like a that's like one of the basic rules of clinical therapy like if people are afraid of something you break it down into pieces
and you would have to encounter the things there afraid of and they don't get less of fright they get braver and more competent which is
way better tis there's plenty of things to be afraid of so so once again here's a just a total limenetis kids boatscrew lorca read it so
gay so i i didn't know about this but i knew what i did with my kids and in the book you know the kid's scared water and has not a swim so
he starts off waiting in the water and then he eventually don't thus head in the water and then eventually he covers up to his neck in the
water and then eventually he swims a little bit and then he finally jumps off the land but that that when i heard you describing a process
or in some matter view that your honor or wine of your pot cast i said i i put that in my buttery eyes versificator and so what you want to
do and what you want to do is you can do this for yourself you think okay here's something i'm afraid of doing okay and so i won't do it
cause i'm actually afraid of it's okay fine decomposed it like me say you're afraid to go on a subway have tearfully so like okay ah go on
line and look at a bunch of pictures of a subway can you do that am gold to the subway station and look at the subway station and then go
home or go into the subway station and open the doors and go in and then go home but don't don't play tricks on yourself right if you say
that you're going to go and just look then just go and look and then go home you know because of the way you will trust yourself the next
time you do it so you have to keep the bargain in tact but and what you want to do as you want to push yourself a little farther than you
want to go but so that you wouldn't go that's all you have to do and that's that's kind of a rule for for learning in life of this happened
the reason it works is because this is actually how human beings learned and so if you want to kitten maybe let's say kid that's a little
inhabited because some kids will just take off but will use the kittens little inhabited so you there around their mum and there in the
playground and there's strange kids there may be they're like four years old something like that and so they're thinking about maybe that
that they'll go out and play and so they hang around long for while they check out the situation then they go out a little bit and check it
out of it more than they come back and maybe they need a little path or something like that you know cause they're coming back to home
territory then the next time to go out a little farther and they'll come back and now next time they go a little farther and then they'll
come back cause they wanta know they can come back and there checking to see how far out they can go and if you're patient and encouraging
even with kids that are quite nervous you know you encourage them to to to keep going out and exploring then they'll habituate and while
what they do is learn their competence and the way they go and so it's not surprising that graduated exposure works because that is
actually how human beings learn to confront the world but it's a great technique and if and the story in the book wasn't my my daughter was
had stage fright but she wanted to be in the school musical and so it was started with her in her room saying by herself by was outside the
door with the door shut yet and then it was okay you saying but the door is open the happener you know a couple of weeks stampedo now the
doors opened now gonested in the doorway now maman i regina in the doorway now were actually coming and sit down and watch you saying and
then it was the family's going to watch you say and then the neighbors are going to want you sang in a usually she is no no issues
whatsoever right now very confident kid but that was yet that's perfect i translated it into the water for the story for whatever reason
but yeah yet while that also means that see what i like about dottery to is that he established to individual relationship with your
daughter you know because kids have different temperaments so like some kids if you take them to the playground it's like they're like pop
you put them down on the ground or like puppies over water there had feebly going before they hit the ground in their just gone right there
out their plane with the kids cosette kids who don't have very high levels of negative emotion and your problem is going to be that they'll
run off too far you know so but then other kids are more they they're more inhabited and often their little more in overthere little higher
negative motion so then what you want to do is calibrated and you have to watch slichow much can this centellea like will push it it in now
can you can figure that out it's like it if it has to be after push them enough so that if they accomplish it they feel that that's
accomplishment it can't be too easy but it can't be too hard you want to put them right on that edge that's the edge between order and
chaos right fundamental you want to put them on that edge and let the experience what it's like to be there then they also learn that they
can be there because if you know you tattercoats you taught her that she could say in front of a group but you also taught her that she
could learn to do something she was afraid of doing and not a way better lesson right now for killer lesson so so that's good that that
means and you can do that with kids too with graduated reward like um you can watch them and if they do something well i i'll tell you how
i did this with my daughter o my daughter had arthritis and it was really bad and she had to learn to give herself an a while he had taken
jections every day and so and then as he gatestone when she was like seven and so am we can give her the injections but she was pretty
skittish about that and no wonder cause they hurt in everything so i thought all right tell with this well will get her to do her own
injections and ah so i saturday said she was pretty motivated by money she's always been kind of a ah capillis kiddy so we found her own
side once when she was for selling all her child books on his street which was quite funny and she was may be five but whatever i said look
keno am i can give you this needle and if you can give you if you can inject this yourself in forty five minutes i'll give you fifty bucks
and so i let her set and she like struggled with that she struggled with that e and baby about thirty minutes she did it and i thought that
could work mat good work so then the next time i said okay this time it's thirty bucks but you got ten minutes to do it and so she did it
and then old soon we got it down so that it could i want to get it down so there was no hesitation rightist anticipatory anxiety's worse
than the needle so you want to push it so it's like okay now and we got to the point where it was um give you gonfaron of give you ten
bucks and so she got to the point took about a week where she could do it in five seconds and i kept pain nor because well for obvious
reasons you know i mean it was kind unfortunate she was very sick and she had these needles and we had to do some things that would sort of
perker up you know to some degree but that was a hard thing for a kid to learn you know it's not easy thing to give yourself a needle but
you can use that graduated exposure and careful reward you can get kids to do very brave things and then they also learn how tough they are
like kahtan she was proud of that man you know she that she could go and do it by herself because that was a big deal and also gave her
some control over eeliness so confidence that's what you wanted still in your kids less your jealous of them so now you also talked about
he started talking about some berries personality trades in holthouse come through and you just released what a month ago a new program
understand yourself understand myself i argon iself dot com yen i also put up a discount code for your people for that too so but willing
could get in twenty per cent in that would make it about seven ninety five so it's pretty cheap um what you do is it you answer hundred
questions the questions are pretty standard like they been derived from the standard scientific literature a partly from a test that i
designed that my students designed about a in two thousand seven calendeuse now a professor of the university of minnesota and we we we we
sin statistically analyzed this question set so we could break out five major personality traits and those of the standard trades that
psychologists believe our reliable envelopment and they be working on that since about nineteen sixty and so that's extroverting and that i
am it can bring a breaks into two aspects so extroverted people are assertive and enthusiastic it's the position to mention their talkative
they and they like to be in social groups electuaries they like they like to talk um and her smile and so forth hum and then there's a
negative emotion to benton the rates and people who were hiding eroticism are that can be broken into withdrawal and volatility and people
who withdraw have a lot of anticipatory anxiety so they might shy away from doing something and volatile people are kind of touchy you know
there there easily set off so um agreeableness agreeable people are compassionate and polite and disagreeable people are toughened blunt
and so women are higher in agreeableness that man and their higher in negative emotions well conscientiousness which is the best long term
predictor of life success after intelligence conscientious people are dutiful and ah so the industrious and orderly and orderly neces a
good predictor of conservative political philosophy by the way or political affiliation along with the low the last dimension is openness
and open people are interested in ideas so that intellect and creative and we we call that open its open is to experience is the main trade
in the creativity trade is old is openness proper so this report gives you a comparative description so you compare gather people on all
five of those dimensions plus all those ten aspects and that can help you understand who you are and that very useful because one of the
things you want to do in life is figure out what your temperament is so that you can find a niche in the economy or in the social world
that you are suited to so like if you are an introvert while computer program i sot about idea accounting or something like that but if
your extroverting to be out with people in one if you are high in negative emotion you're going to want a job that's not too stressful in
the fairly secure and if you're open then you not you poneret type and if you are agreeable you should be working with people and if your
desagreable you should be working with things and so that anyways the reports detail all of that and so then once people see where they
fall out they can kind of put themselves into a better position like you said a job that suits them and that skettowe well that howell that
is you know it's you you you do have a temperament and there is a place for each temperament in the economy in the world because otherwise
they wouldn't exist and so the issue is what is your temperament so if your high and openness you need you need to engage in something
creative cause you won't be healthy if you don't because it's like a major if you are like a tree with different trunks it's like that's
one of the trunks it might be the major one you can't let that thing die because it'll take a big part of it with you and if you're
disagreeable say your competitive type and so you're going to need some of that in your life and if your conscientiousness if you're
conscientious that so redyed predictor of military ah ah a performance by the way then you need a routine indeed to be in need to be locked
on to some task in now cause otherwise you'll yield consume yourself with guilt um so so it's very important understand who you are that
way and is also important that's interesting because that's i can tell you that that sort of the middle of the bellcord even like towards
the higher under the bell or curve of military performers are the people that are can constantias innate relatively obedient but when you
get to either end either high end but either the low end of bad performers but also high under the people that knowing to break the rules
that are slightly rebelliad that will rebel intail tell you know one of the big ones is you know i don't want to be surrounded by people
that are telling me that i'm right all the time i don't want my subordinate a don't have people that are working for me that are going to
when i say go cartesianae say okay and they go to it you might think that that's what i want and that might be the the overall perception
of people remote i want a robot is gonna fall my oders actually don't if i tell you to go chargeman it's not in its onnatural i actually
want you say hey jocato n't told like a good plan to me let's do something else let's come around on the fine so so it's interesting that
year you will be good and that middle park and you might even get towards the higher end but the guys that are really valuable in the
military are the guys that also have that openness that creativity and nor and at the same time are able to discipline it and harness it
right they can conform when they need to right well it may need to be with a actually had to do as i got older the older when i first got
in you know i was the guy pushing the envelope i long here and so everything that i could do with macotte stay within the bounds of what we
were smote doing and and in as i got older i realize i asustarse port of that you're able to do your job good and you have creativity not
with how you have your stupid haircut but in are you come up with a mission plan vering that's where i expressed my creativity not through
not through pushing the envelope of uniform standards which is which is what a lot of immature young military guys do very right well in
the thing about ah um the people who will stand up and tell you what they think is that they tend to be disagreeable types as well and he
now you hear a lot about emotional intelligence in the business world these days but it motioning ence is really indistinguishable from
trait agreeableness so agreeable people are polite and compassionate nat's great especially if you're taking care of people but you want
some disagreeable people around because they'll tell you what they think and their blunt will the isn't emotional telligence though can you
be agreeable what not be able to re iwashi of it is me being able to read people like i understand all that person's got gottingen on
that's their agenda is in the background so even though i might be agreeable but i also understanding where you're coming for well i think
that that's what emotionalities is if it's anything valid but the tests the test it tend to coolly very highly with agreeableness and so
only agreeable managers don't make better bit managers is agreeable managers make better managers while they have to be conscientious as
well or cause a disagreeable person whose conscientious is actually relatively easy to work for because they'll tell you what they think
but they'll do what they say you know and they can make tough decisions and you often have to make decisions that are somewhat harsh in
order to move things ahead in the long term right because if your soft it means you'll sacrifice the the long term for the short turn and
if your tough but but have your head screwed on straight i mean you make tough decisions in the present that might ruffle fathers and hurt
people's feelings but they make the medium to long term better and so not at abergeldie such with younger companies they go through that
expansion face and all the somethingth dat dey go through the retraction face man in a fire people you know and and they wait because the
the leader is to agreeable and so soft and so they wait and all of a sudden there upside down financiere proper as if they would have been
aggressive in sennaar the isidoro make i know is on her right now but long terms could be had first got to get rid of this division or this
department of these people and the tarantella to do that i really hurt him in the war yet well that's the sacrifice of the future for the
present if not generally about idea the other thing was the understand myself ah amist em he is that you can also use it to like if if you
do the the program and get your results in some one else does some one your close to say you can compare them and that's really useful
because you think you understand people but you don't understand them as well as you think so for example my daughter was fairly well she
she was quite ill so it was complicated but she was a touchy let's say when she was a teenager and i thought it was because she was
rebellious but she did the personality tested and my son by contrast is very easy to get along with but then we had them do the personality
test and it turned out she was very high and agreeableness and compassion but also pretty high in negative emotion where is he was the
opposite he was very disagreeable but very low and negative emotion so he wasn't long with he just never got upset but if he ever tried to
get him to do something you didn't want to do that was like impossible any eastlake that from the time you was two years old where is my
daughter it wasn't rebelliousness it was that she was easily made anxious and upset and so i learned at least to somewhat so if she gives
she sort of flared up instead of interpreting now as as rebelliousness or or or or or conflict i just saw in his nervousness and that
helped to lot in all it didn't make me able to deal with it hundred per cent but it helped lot it was quite shocking to me because you know
i thought i knew my kids and ah and i did i take but that was very useful and head men was really funny because then as she started to date
she had every boy friend shiver went out with take the personality to hurrieth ught bascome not actually worked out quite well well the
thing is you don't eat you want one or the boys not smart enough to like manipulate the answers will they don't have a serving no what she
went on i don't you know how i at least as soon like okamisan agreeable and i try i remember i do take psychological as to ah and this was
in the ninety to give us a one you think they had some big battery of psychological examinations in under views to get in the sultan's not
to quit a one task during both camp and it was funny as i was really hungry when i was in blue camp ristofolo sock and and i just thought
man i want to pass this test and i knew i had some things in my brain that weren't going to be smiled upon by a whatever analyst was going
to read these things so for an wimple descent is nossing i remember is complete the sentence of it said for instance i hate when my mom and
you fill in the blank and obviously it's really because it is gains all that i read of if you're a psychopath fit for me every answer that
i gave was you know for me it was a hate win my mom doesn't cook enough noodles with the pegadiadis thought i was a ensifer getting nothing
out of me nothing i i think the test did my daughter used was one i had designed that people couldn't fake so it wasn't quite as accurate
with regards to the individual personality traits but it was it was more difficult to face good on which is better for hiring people for
example what can a question can you not fake in el omare you hard working or are you easy to get along with you as right are you creative
or disciplined o right right moreeasily are you the radiant anxious or are you a inhibited and and now canalward with people can you go in
between as in a wan detent it's in troyes without with that particular perinis and then you've pared all these question he at eventually
get that's right something that is right well or or maybe here's ten negative statements which five applied to you most leviate those
pertinacity accurate so will use those for personal selection for a while so of for me it would be are you agreeable of decipline hungry is
gaiatasenon before cause that you and you also have the book maps of meeting you and and for those people that were expecting me to do the
book maps of meaning on this pot gaston review in depth there is literally no reason because you have already done that all wine on you two
and on your potato go through in great detail better details in i would have been able to in one potestas you have a series of pocasset
massmeeting it's fascinating it's awesome everything that you kind of touch on to day is in there in great daphnian worshippers of margot
there now thanks to you and and i'm sure that will expand and if you want to get into that he book is called maps of meaning the
architecture of belief it's very excessive that you have the thetalassomene europian as which by the way i didn't talk about you at all in
the opening i realize that about half way through this pocassett actually explain who you were so is there anything you've need to say
about yourself that i should have said i mean caught well this just the bare basileidos i was lannington i practiced for about two and a
half decade i've done a lot of business consulting um ah as well as clinical work i'm a professor at the niversity of toronto in psychology
and i might domain of expertise or personality assessment and nero science and the study of belasyses like religious place systems and and
i that's basically the and i i i have a family i'm married and have been for just about thirty years and of got two kids and a new
grandchild and so that's and i become somewhat netootam the last year really no no tension quite the bizarre a trip you might say so sir
would can go and explore that yeah you're pretty um for guess the other thing i should say cause my publicist will be on my case if i don't
as it i have another book coming out which is much more straight forward ran maps of meeting which is quite a technical book and that
butters cannae called twelve rules for a wife yet an antidote chaos ye and it's available for preordination already so he annoy twenty
third that was where nominoe and i'm hoping that now sitha would maybe he come back on her and we atala little bit about that book that be
good that would be that would be good um that book be right up i mean eve touch on a little bit besettin a couple of the twelve rule seated
i think you mentioned two of the twins to day and thou would be awesome to have you come back on and again i think people after they hear
this if they did already know who you are they'll don't go and research in you are they're going to want to em get that book out it be
great to have you back on your annan obviously you've got your own pot taste ye the jordan be peterson pot can yes you've got you are you
too gentle yep janitor george gordon peterson violeter son and george and beaters clips yes you just put out yes after wasn't that you know
crafty come out with a thing ligiere thing to tenney a she's got to jest he's the one that supposed to make the clips you will one of the
things that being so strange men learning to use you to a people have been clipping my work like mad which is not something i expected like
i say right now the rest at able for it new clips a day being put on by people which is really good you know i mean i've got no problem
with that at all but i thought i might as well see what would happen if we also did it and so i put my my my son's finsen my daughter is
well so they've been doing that clipping and so but yes cool let the u to videos are so interesting as well as the part casts because
people can can do their own thing with them to some degree you know not can be bad depending on how they do the editing but so far my
people had been responding very positively to what i've been doing which is quite a shock to me ah but i i think it i think it but you made
reference to this as well and in the in the fact that you found it a ready audience as like people are ready for a message that not all
freedom and and writes you know like jesus enough for that like really seriously would be walking down that road for sixty years it's time
to to look at the alternative ethics and responsibility that's a big one and especially when it is the case that i know you think freedom
gives you life more meaning that's true if you're under a tyranny but if you're not an it's responsibility that gives you life meaning and
you you you life has to have meiths negative meeting whether you wanted or not you choose whether not it has positive meaning and you
choose that by adopting responsibility and so and like desired market for that because we've we've ignored that reality for two long so i
remedy receive after now at the point where they realized that being free free free free isn't getting them anywhere yet well i was think
of light you know okay you want to be free all right i'll take you drop in the middle ocean so like keewin and direction as i got not
helpful you know you you got to be swimmin i give if i dropped you near island and said well swim to that i gaiathah that's that's got
meaning i won't drown i won't die but too much does no difference between too much freedom and chaos ritenne drown in chaos he needs the
right balance of freedom in order and and and discipline while as you said or also which is a paradoxical thing the more discipline you
have the more self discipline the more freedom even even putting in those hour breaks that you described you know sometimes when i've been
too busy which has been fairly frequent a i'll take an hour break you know aunt i can actually have a brake because i done the things that
i was supposed to do and so even though it's the anhour long i can actually relax during that our not being plagued by my conscience or our
things undone you know and so that's that's that's a really good thing to be able to attain when you feel that you've got things you've got
the right things reasonably under control and your moving up hill that's better than anything else really yeah uh speaking of getting
things under control aoyama be kids you tell me poll quickly how they could support this pot cattelton feel like we all talkin about all we
entary fire after have question to question okay you know so with the recent kind of i every one wait for in the pocassett little bit onono
with the rise of our um exposure will call it do people and a flock to your class now well orsino not so much to my class but there
definitely flocking to public talks a ye so and and and my my class is generally been quite popular you know so that so and mazandarani
this year so will see what happens when i when i return with that lover did you preconi that well it was actually the grace good grace of
the university in no because well i had to get my act back together after all these things happened you know on and i also had some health
problems over the last year that had been rather severe which i think i have under control maybe ah but i i told them that look i i'm going
to be much better if i take this year and and do what's necessary for this book that's coming out and read concept lies what i'm going to
be teaching because he othering i as i have to do that i've gone all his lectures recorded now nor on you too but like it is not viously i
should do them again if donnie at there's three years of some of the on line so i have to re i have to read think what i'm doing as a
university lecture causeth you to be now you can do something new like this biblical series that i've been doing even do something new and
you can have it out front of a hundred and fifty thousand people in one day like what you got to think about that that's a whole different
universe and i like doing lectures on things that i'm i'm still learning about tar to do that idea of ursae you have to have the evaluation
structure people after now what to expect than you know has to be pre plantat's not so good if you want to do something that's novel so
i've got a lot of thinking about that and i don't know what's going to happen is next year in any case so you find that like am i
glittherin othei and people thought on line i think a lot of penetrare compelled to see that same one impersonate a concert you know like
oh yeah i listen to anosto asiento and you know i have the d or whatever but they're in town for a concert or the eryinanth next day for
concert on one to go see the concert will i i think i i think that that works out o cayor me because there are these underlying themes that
that permeate everything that i'm saying and yet i would say those are the architeles so i i have this sort of structured way of presenting
information hamadan while the work i did for aponei and so even if the lectures knew there is echoes of the of the other ones alas i mean
one of the things about architype stories is that any images is that their very expensive you know and so their multi fastened so you end
up touching on the same theme over and over but from different respect of his own one of the things people tell me all the time which is
really interesting in this is really geminate for thirty years as they come up to me after the lectonia in now you were telling me things
that our eady knew but i didn't know i knew the tentat that's definitely an architecture because you know you're your experience does have
a certain structure and that doesn't mean you can say what it is but if you hear it being said then you know that outwait is and so it's
fun in front of the crowd because i can watch that happen to people they cause i'm always speaking to individuals within the crowd and i
i'll say something in some of ill go i theriere a little bit of the jerba a little bit i think yes so that's just clicked a couple of
hither for you just really folletti get the same thing loowit extreme ownership the book and you know about bearship petals and we say in
the book these are not new these have been around for hundreds and in some cases thousands of years of how militaris run organizations and
therefore the military leadership principles are actually the same as all watersupply to get much of crazy human beings to do something
that's going to behind a mission and i executed the most efficient way but people say are you i i i kind of ways i always thought that i
should be that i was ovals done that yet but if but ye you can't ordain an it's a self aware as i think when people they they may be they
do have good natural leadership judgment and they've always taken responsibility for things and but that i really fought about it they just
come i did it well and once they know hey i need to take on ship of things even then they really can do it then an they also see it in
their subordinately or ship in the galatian understating they are not doing a good job if it's the same thing with keeping the simple word
decentralized command or prior dissector these are things that successful leaders do prior dissect if you get a leader that's goin to try
an accomplished thirty seven different things at the same time the man going to be successful so so leaders they know the prioritize nexct
good leaders but when we say it to him you know they might still they might not do thirty seven things but they might do try to eat things
at the same time and they know that they should be doing an in to and and when when they hear a say in distribeted that's what atyatonentha
the things that characterises a leader is that he or she knows where they are going fright mean that that's that is on the matherman too
but that's i worked for you in committee at one point tom oh no oh i iconic sustain ability economic and environmental specis stain ability
and one of the problems with the first draft of the report and i would say the final draft to some degree is that in all ways all done by
committees so there are hundred priorities like no there aren't a hundred priorities that's a contradiction in terms like you start with
one of these things and may be you start with a small piece of it and see if it works but it's to dave a hundred priorities is to make no
one dissatisfied you not going to you know gonneau you can't move in a hundred directions out the same time so it's a real abdication of
annaple do that in disney way too because there abdicating their responsibility right say well we're going to move in a hundred directions
and are in every one had in pot so i could out stop the issue the issue is how you can dametha down to an actual action plan and now
actually makes you am accountable that's the thing in that's why people don't do it so like witfoot a hundred directions and it's hard to
see whether you're you're doing it well but if you go to wonder actually not doesn't work is like beletre obvious as a people are afraid to
do that but if you don't do it is failure you i get the same thing when i get people now they asked me a question and i give the answer in
actorines he yearneth i know i know ye one of the people does does that for time to time tells how you talk about kind of breaking the loop
in your behaviour like a namae a change to that one thing you know to break lean then you start with some small tenants up affecting more
thin and you mentioned sometimes it's hard because he don't get pats on the back for the little things you know yethered so small
deathening that you even have to do that ye yes but in a time like to yourself is like kind of big like em like almendron eight glasses of
water a day now you know and then it's almost like your seeking that pat on the back like you on tell your friend like an idin eight eight
um glass a water and there i tink you so he right and yellowy do i impart usin like wide away he's an do it then if no one's going to care
you well you don't they there's a lesson to be drawn from that too and in terms of relationships that really useful psychologically as and
and this is a big mistake that people won't make like if you and have a good long term relationship with someone then you watch them
constantly and when they do something that you like you you let them know even if it's a small thing a cause the way more likely to do it
again you know and so sometimes a personal have kind of an inkling about what they might do that good or that would be good for your relate
their relationship with you or they might even just be pleasing to you but they won't say anything they are like afraid because maybe they
won't get attention for it and but then they do it now notice it's like man that's super powerful what you have to be really attentive
though cause the good things that people do don't stand out the mistakes they made a ondoubt and then you say well you may mistake for it
ah but two to watch into reward some one for doing something small right that that's a step in the right direction that is a killer
strategy i on that to be true to my daughter she's for in alfnoth ye like one at some kids really relie some kids are talantaton respond to
punishment at all yet he anoutchin he thaankin intimidate them my daughter if i just pointed at her she would stop but my son it was like
that was just rather wainamoinen way i so but he responded to reward like mad if i notched him and he did something that was good and i
told him that it was like he was to a yes or daego ye ye i reward is harder to use but it's more effective if you go on a git ye and then
that's not like cannily say were your like be careful with the reward when you give like two water for these small things in all and then
the golosinian that's problem with the self esteem movement you know oh yevery kid gets a trophy day yet i no it it's like inflating the
currency is everything is good then nothing is good as i asked the has to be a distinction so they are you want to watch and you want to
see when the persons made an effort and you want to see when they've gone beyond the coal of duty and then you want to say hey i noticed
that that was really good and ye aniti scarcity really matters and tho situations because otherwise it just turns into noise yea ye
patronizing noise even which is even eristical your doing well really well i wot to like leave me alone eh it's such a life yea i have a
fun time with that actually ill but like em if i have to judge and with all though my kids life if i had to judge them and their friends i
have three daughters and one son usually it was the daughter i was being some kind of a judge and going to judge the dance i'm goin to
judge the little play that they put together unginned the u acrobatic routine that the doing in the lack yard that i was be judging the
things and i would have so much fun because i would say they do their little performance there one minute performance and they come out
they blows it and i took a first of all presentation over all i'm giving you a four point too i have been to one smile until you actually
got on says that's wrong and i would disgorge and give them the whole to ship all crelian and they love it yet they let it it did dance and
they will they would be happy to dine go try to go and try their lady that four point three to a four point five they be smiled like you
could no mile away o ye ye ye i've just got done aeou pool party with some one to little kids running around and i ended up judging the
diving competition and all the parents were watching and and they were aghast on i was doing the theotimus by the way i dare thereto
italian i did it a year not indeed action yes i give the kid whom the names and then and then i say you know you were completely unbalanced
when you left the board it was almost in barrassin otoyo try again i'm giving a two point to yeh go try again and see you computation the
kenset almost all there nalanipo wotiver you erezennae someone who could improve festinata deal that's that's better than that's better
than a poon the back it's like because everyone's loughtan there were one needs to improve while so with my kids were little i taught them
out as speak in public took about an hour now was it so i have them an they had to read something you know and so they'd read it and and i
was across orimas well that's not loud enough so i caen't here play belato nanda get lot little ouderdon i got is what to be read in
waylander than you think you should and so they did that i sogogo right because there's nothing more appalling than listening to some
speaker that you can't hear it's like there's just no excuse for that men like make it clearer but some passion into it you know and it was
a aunbile how quickly they would pick that out you know and and at that also made me sad because because it took so little time to get them
to do that and then they have it you know and so and that that like a critic is your best friend if the critic isn't destructive because it
quite a critic does is say look feinted things and like these five things you need some work on those they are not good and here some
things you could do that would make them better and here is two things that he got all right and here's three things that you did pretty
well out and so then well what's the message the messages hey you can handle some outvirtues so you're not some little you know useless
wimpy thing that's goin to die just because some one isn't telling you that you're already wonderful plus you're not already what not
nearly as wonderful as you could get so let's keep out in mine and then you know you lay out a pathway for improvement and then you treat
the kid with some respect and and you also show that being in dull means that you know more than being a kid cause he you know the kid does
something you said that was really good it's like what are you saying well as an adult i don't know any better than you do and that's where
do you as well message he cause the kid is going to be an adult for a very long time and one of the things we do really badly in our
culture is made why being in the dull is better than being a child cause it is better you have freedom and you have responsibility to have
a conomy and so were always so concerned about making our kids feel good about themselves it's like they should be feel good about becoming
responsible adults because they're going to be adults for like eighty years and they're going to be kids for like twenty years so they
don't the goal so ye to interesting when you started doing that cause be kids are a tapin years old and under by yelland he's like let him
about but you is funny you have this kind of tone about you though when you talk to kids that it's like it's almost like live that much
over the tricastini tell us like plain a character ring right onright and the kids love it still funny my daughter like love him oh and we
kids are discriminated one in to do it again in a clime do this letitia your daughter all you do it you she's like okay okay sereriano kids
salonica all cawarring these capenter love attention he i hear her say any they want attention because adults actually no more than they do
and so if you take careful attempts like i get along really well at little kids and it's cause i pay attention to them and if they do
something good then we have this kid over at our house once this is a sad story i ah told it in my new book um so this kid was both for
redoute kid renie look at kit and ah his nannie had been hurt at caracas he was kind to be shuffled around the neighborhood for tradere for
like a week or so a and i heard some not smoors about this kid and so i was kind of curious and so anyway that he came over to our house my
my my wife was also taken care mother kids at this time uh and i came home and he was standing tother kids were playing in a like living
room and he was standing in the porch sort of in the corner you know and i just wandering round back and forth and i looked at him and i
thought that's not so good so i kind of hope in a bit you know and less pointing to get him to play and he have this like ready mask of a
face an unhappy and i poke im an e conteur away an old hat and i couldn't get him to smile i couldn't get him to play and i thought that's
not good that's not good cause he's for like it he should have you know acted on happy for two or three pokes and then kind of laughed and
then a would cinget into it you know so so that that wasn't so good so then we had lunch and the rule at our house was eat tegan luncheon
say thank you to the person who made it because otherwise they'll cook you horrible thing since he and you'll die toose it's hard to cook
lunch for you have some gratitude a little monsters so you at what but was there and so his mother when she dropped a of said he probably
won't eat anything old day but that's all right and we thought will actually no that's not all right because he needs to eat and and it's
and it's not all right that he doesn't eat wrong and so we learned how to feed retaliated by that point and so all the kids were at the
table and they were eating and my wife had made some chicken stew and he wasn't eating and so she was trying to feed him and so we were
watching him very carefully and so she bring up this boon to his mouth and he like move his head back and forth you know to refuse it and
it was just like boutonne month old would do that when you're turned to it that their therfield so that's a nine month old trick and we
thought okay well something happened when he was nigh months old and he never really got beyond that and so am i now my wife was fairly
persistent with the spoon and am ain't get annoyed you know squawk of it she'd put some food in and then he'd swallow it and then and then
as soon as he took a little bit of food and she pawed him and tell him that he was being a good give and she mantoa was not a game like she
she was really in tanton getisculatin ch and so safing and he's moving his his head back and forth but what was cool as she kept pounding
on the head and telling him as good kitty was open his mouth far off in evangiles still moving his head back and fore and so it took about
ten minutes or so and she fed him the whole ball of chicken stew and she said she should aysalook you're a good boy you ate all of it and
that horrible mask that he was wearing i know that mask of unhappiness and magisterial and he had this great smile it was just i just made
the hero on the back o my neck stand up because you could see that was the first damnthing that he did be no loud to succeed at it now and
so he was thrilled and then for the rest of the day he falled my way around like a puppy dog like he was one step behind her and then we
went down stairs into the basement and were watching t v and he climbed up in her lap and he grabbed on to her joy like here's the famous
experiment that harlow did with monkeys and the monkeys could either have the wire mother that fed them milk or the coglier that they could
cling to they were both artificial a nut monkeys preferred the cuddly mother you know not what it was like he was just wrapped around her
you know and man his mother came home and she came down stairs and she took one look at this kidnapped round my wife and she said oh super
mamman grabbed him all you know walked out my thought you that is horrible that was a horrible thing to see cause he was in one day with
that kid you'd he'd fix him up a eunoias one positive experience was enough to bring him out of his shell and you know it's okay that he
doesn't eat see no key that he stands in the corner doesn't play with the other kids you know it's okay that he's miserable and unhappy
it's like he guess what that's not okay not even a little bit okay so that's a good example of the use of reward you know it it just it was
something to see all tell you eh well speaking of breaking the loops doctorin so origin mercate stuff but cocoas his own line of
supplements so in the event of your joints cause that's really the main one you joints ye jocoser crill crill better than fish oil by the
way would you make it this when some one care so crill back in the day my wife dead my father in law he always a crake or loyal fore you
joined good and he's one of these like health for acetone from that spirit asamoneans good or bad but and he'd be like a cruel oil he sees
them even better than fish or like cool never listen never listen but then when jack for some reason take doesn't even say to take it just
like he takes it then i start taking it and i read the benefits of course is cruel don't but we make it that what is the crooil do for you
just it helped so you know how you get joint just from working out you and now in stuff you donjons it source on no get older whatever in
like um so i start taking cuillin here is the example i said it before oh i'll tame quick so my daughter shotford she's made three at the
time three something ah and in the morning how she waked me up is she waked me up and then when i get up she jumped back can i show in let
me walk down says without her in her or my back so when she do that you may just woke up you not warm you may or may not have yeawr out did
some training whatever so you kind of got a exercise like perfect form to stand up with this little girl who's moving on you on your back
otherwise you get injured so after i i was about six days of taking crill i didn't have to like it was like a already warm who thou was the
feeling that her did that was to be why do i listen to jocund take croiland not my father in law you will tell me the same story don't
often have it an example instead of being told is more effective in a here's a confidence i think that goes along with some one doing
something and not telling you about it ye ye you've been psychologically unwild haill on the last so on top of that jackass on cruel so you
know that's the good one to perrot to straggler super by the way also joint warfare which is a bunch of other ingred is that glucose mean
provocando eye the room with it perform mule for joint sustainable joint maintenance and help perfection from origin or gin labor gemmen
dotcom natoma labs boom is re get it is there like a i think it's like anyway there's a lincoln the story anyway to do to be a don or store
tarrieth had reached boori there wotever need also give an rascarse if you intitle introduces to your pie i'm not i'm not slandered now
after so much call for that as a professorship other iliados were young light on water yet your very pocket a yawl we've got one coming up
on november eleventh to talk on free speech and i'm afraid there's going to be plenty of trouble at it i hope not and i hope that everybody
had a is yeddication cruise ye do an aiapango not less if you are interdicted gees american made by the way or whether you know my dear
another can make so anaveni average idiotically actually is born in canada by the way where victoria prickles a but i moved back to hai
when i was like two months old it was a kind of mottled in ho use from canada go back home to have the kids at between brother the have us
two months later pomatumed so you don't have many memories of the toreador that only the pictures but i've been back fetid been to victoria
and toronto actually and horrors over them the east coast portion anyway i i i here may be a potent night was where do they speak french a
lot way way over there on the uneasily mornington on a wife and much eroded there's really no aim under hers very city now rory mc donald
and his little weany way back to the gieranger oh we got i ate so much at some restaurant i a guy comes up there for you have c my fighters
caught weight and then it's not to go religionen we ended up at this little italian restaurant and it was even sang how the guy was making
the noodles domed everything everything he made himself and then we get done i'm you know just completely glutinously filled with food and
the cause of woe do like some desert as inanimate and he says it's the best terrain the world and i have a oleate programmer serferez in
and he brought it out he made it and i took him to twentymans to make it and he brought it out and it was the best figaniere put by
mahlsticks still good a heart's pretty delusion and montreal has excellent relater ones i wish i remember the name of place i go back there
yet but i'll actually did find that that might we went to a dinner is a diner and seemed like he was the same thing like they put carrying
everything all the fries or what i like you can't sit oaxaca and abatentent good i noteless rascarse have some new ones coming out from
origin and we have ronnes coming out but a power there origin he makes a warrior tit rashers are coming out maaede goin to be a estoyt
which all talk of mohanee inforcar good story by the way also fitness gears it or fitness gear if you want to break the loop i think that's
the the team that's what i eleven of the many things by the way from the leaf her wit breakout so you know he pultawa to get more in back
into their fitness or improve their current fitness they want to try kettlebelly be intimidating him speak for one wing from experience but
break to lose to get one kettlewell i think you should get the ship kettlewell thirty you know katberg reattack about chimeraes that's one
i may unimaginable that all the same so you get so secantes on it it's the company called ones on it duncombe flashed jacobite you can get
these cataballitive are not just a cat in ball with the handle they're like a cannibal sheep like a champ or were wolf pretty dot in no on
a dot com flashed ocalca those out and freckelton get it get on it too the has like eight now lechaillu self proclaimed to liveyere not
allowed to be a oisanite for doing it even though i am a notatam saying o ka i'm saying luresome yourself i have legitimate headed some
sadducees at not what if in this not of point the point is my set of kettlewell's is legitime champ where will double where wolf gorilla
double graithe goslin and wait and one a big foot linton what's your heaviest on padomano to volunteer every rap to be larselene farallone
every rap thievery set every rapture pounds from overtime that is legit also one you get maps of meaning by doctor gordon b peterson all
this did on the website talk potestatis ed in that website books quick do there that's a good way to support and the new ynaien twelve
rooster life the ah oh yeah you can pretorians yes yes is june pretty well in preordered about four thousand copies and porters a sonata
will double that number when this part cast comes out and be good that be good the cold there so geminiani that had an what's gospel at
listen a pot caste re we we read books all the time yet they read the books they buy the books that's it's it's awsome to welladay too then
i have a book list on my web site on jordan b peterson dot cokoo of recommended reading since so few on a well i mean the book had had a
huge impact on me well ordinary man is right hardeman's one of them for and the rape of nan kinel yet which is a we did patkasa a alooan
you would be very interested in the follow on book to that which is called a woman who cared too much which is written by irish changs
moight right he renew irish committed suicide the atwell no wonder after investigating that and being harassed for it not suprising at and
that it seemed like it her mom thought it was a lot to do with the drug she been prescribed and going on and off drugs and apparently you
shouldn't disporting on droning start in some other drug apparently she with they were jews being directed to do that and it was negatively
backful at least according to what holemouth so what a what a travesty that was me i am sure that the your bookless and arboles's probably
has a lot of over lassailly all the books or talking about we already covered not like recovered then noting that but you know like were
familiar with it because it's on the same list ye asked later lap but yet i looked at your listeners actually not a lot of overlap but
there is a time you obviously have a ton of books on her that that uh the lot of people would be interested in reading that i haven't
covered it so yes perhaps millisol naturally ye so ye but ye lewies are going to be on that last again go to duck but as to come on the top
little dab at his books from that passion i got it lifted by episode sometimes multiple books per episode netherway pole i tell you that i
did with his support quick through the air and get those books from amazon and if he now other amazon chopping hay carry on do that too
good way to support also subscribed to the pocket if you have an already seems obviously now but if you haven't done subscribed a good way
to support also on you too like we talk to em we only have one channel turnips too that's good may be a good idea though cause they go to
certain channels for certain things he you know what i mean bolkovo to what the optabilem of the utopias no dirigent served different
function yet and different experts will give you differences with that overinterested hayder listened you know how you eat mention that
people get our your like little clips of your talks no make their own videogame music on that i nithe do that with a lot they doboy do that
he ever like go on there and just kind of watch him and be like had never really really felt it like that you know with that it music arose
interestingly with it on jamaily that good we made to get this little thing but this the expression good so i i lame me make a video made
one of those made of matches but he liked it and in case i'm ready made a radio where they put me through one of those or or gauged that
aretino's talking about caps and rats and so i like this sort of wrap idiosyncratical fell to you i don't know what to think about five
hundred thousand have you inertialess you mormon me my higher treated something all tell a abattis you reach the you retreated ah examine
computer swording something sort of as yet and if you gets watch the thing sortie you posted two or three of them and i watched the
alterini just kind of funny that he who can do we get to a place where we'll watch ing a computer sort things at it well for so wise that
i'll do to bring the first place and i'm sitting there watching and i'm i'm a person that that constantly tells people don't waste your
time on you to pity of and there i was watching you know three forty five second you two videos of numbers being resorted there petialate
came all relate to see things being sort o ye were lyin you ever seen those big domina patterns you know now that they'd made and they
discovered of it in your just watching the dominate you know kind of the same when we magnetical bad now we failed to talk about the sort
yourself out to that we even use the war store until right now that's a real that's a real grendon my part yea and for those you will
you'll find this as you get into georgians work you'll see that he talks about the sword and yourself out and how that's what she needs to
do is sorteraient become that's pretty come on i mean my gittin'est shirts and all sorts of things that and clean your room when you are
yearwhich is i really think that's so funny and so it's so absurd so much of what's happened in the last year been surreal and observed but
that certainly one of them you and i thought about observed the other day i was um a had my daughter cleaning her room and i was playing a
janiero clipped love you telling depletion alive and he is getting so mad a hangin but i thought it was fun that you and and then she told
me yesterday that she had had a conversation with her friends about torturous things and mean things that their parents had done and that
is what she is how i has howleglas an indiaman of yet heritor desoriente stand that i can i can understand that but then you too clips a
light like i you see am time the rappites lettelier my brother would always start a heat always say that what people do when they add the
music to your voice it almost gives it like this um you know how like one might be a crude comparison but you know how like dogs you had to
do in their medicine but you got to put in the food you know so it's kind of that i know like o k you know this university of toronto
perfessor i get it may be other people might not get it cause it's just this coltonobory lecture bellamism cool music behind it yet well an
i think people are doing that because they do find something you know they find a statement or two that hit them and yet o yes and they
like to play with it and torsion cerne like more power to them it's really interesting to see how that multiplies out you know as it's it's
been fascinating to watch that firando on artists are rap artist met made a song the song is called to free and the it's a guy wrapping in
a fit his name right now i i apologized but he's rapping and then the song like his rapping fades out and on incomes me talking about this
penycoed in the middle of this rather all planets at this at the last minute others wraps on then and i was going back and forth with him
on twitter and estada and i really dug what you said i heard it on jessore like a wrapper when yep that's why oteseonteo too though no
youbet are straight up rapporter pullet ackerobat as all of them at all insane he said at latencies you too that's a good way to to support
subscribe you jacopo cast bellagio gaseous there could be fake accounts i remember there were oh but aculeata had you channel that's a yet
onneyote hard to distinguish at this point unless god with subscribe also jackass a store called jocatore it's a cool name right it is and
eases also like to rent rinato the coin of whole zealandiae the name on the bashwa the jordan beetroot gosamer iyeyoshi and open at
soteriology head over that one you're no save vote we all but an ostelere on the less am still basic store bubble we got on their cuteness
some rash guards were digito answering actually for pre much any physical activity cycling whatever oh also some women stuff on there and
hats hoods are out for the winter as i usumcasane legitimate he's from hawaians rogatian last hoodish made were um sinner than your shirt
that you're wearing riot they are inappropriate sieben up in this year lad exaggeration but true none the less so yet there they're thicker
who he for sure and therein am somachs on their against some women stuff for you you know the lady troopers in osterode all good on there
ah some new stuff come in out bullet you guys wait on what those things far oh inanitions doors out come that's a gasengines this big thing
you know there's four people that are waiting to be avancement saying that's one talking in a called jacko store o come easy to remember
all so okay so psychological warfare till you with then make sense to so when you're on the path that's all gaminerie path hyeah it is
supplantation know all they go camiciuola keep doing that stuff you know you can just be like i'm going to quit drinking and then just quit
drinking for one day you got a doit for for good but some days you find that it's like hard like with eminece four thirty in the morning
every morning now further rest then my life one day it can be like i can't do them the patent but now psychological warfare an album with
tracks you can get on eighteens whatever and each track is for each little weakness that might come up samsing so let's say you're about to
wake up you want it to snooze instead of the snooze psychologic warfare get up and get after it the anime of the track it'll have jocolate
you pragmatically why you shouldn't do that why you should stay shongsasha n the path you can't paint against weakness and also a yount's
gago throw a bunch of stuff like game you want to skip the work out that day or your procrastinating you know i leave it for to morrow
whatever created back hoist on twelve like a logical orfered it out see if that i it see if any one or more of the tracks addresses your
potential weakness on your path that's what it's for and that by the way that that album was a number one spoken word outbowers mething
like nine months and i was only recently under his own i done and whose only recently overtaken by another album that's called the
disciplina freedom fieldman why the aversion audivero which is now on itonian again ducal play in other heered it yes you did the sheers i
been thinking about reading my noble oh you feronia this year i read this with my body life and this book the kids book waiterkind my son
read one he read the kid and i read uncle jake so i have for with that kind of thing altineri amazon eating a jackal white tea which you
may want to try it do you ever dead lift weights yet okay this will give you a minimum dead lift of eight thousand pounds if you drink
jackalent along yeouffeis is onsware than i have ever been able to deadliest seventy holostome antidote thousands a talk on what will you
mangiest will get you there hundred per cent also on amazon obviously we got the books dornwood maps of meeting and twelve rules for life
preordered it the thing that this was on happen and i had to warn people that was going to happen and his granahan to your book to your
publisher doesn't understand what's happening they don't understand you too they understand your pot cast it understand this pocasse
gorogio casteneta nd that and so their printing books they think only it we think it's going to do a cat the book is going to sell out so
people don't preordered the book they will go there too thinks first all they won't get away comes out and second all they won't get the
first edition copy which is kind like if her aboot guy you want that thing if you want to be first edition okay that's disoit you want his
book which you do pretty order in do it now am watter kid if you want to put your kid if you want to start your kid out and put them on the
proper path the proper path get them buckwater warrior kid you said you read it yenoki funny i use that term too and my my book the proper
path and by a editor asked me quite ripe repented idly i'd say what exactly what i meant by that but it's no sort of implicit in the book
but proper is the right word for that for some reason it's even though it's kind of an old word in some ways all fashion word how took it
there's a lot of old fashioned words that we could we put that we could use again adrian i re i wrote this book because all the books that
were out there for kids were telling them that there was okay to be weak and that it was okay to do bad and school have maybe they weren't
smart enough to do now their time tables and all these so maybe it's okay if you're scared of the water makes just stay with from the water
i have no no no and no right you own no key woodcot kate be like that camp it's but it is an okay to be strong and it is okashun hard and
work hard it is octohac your fear camp it's okay to stand up to the bully so kate to those things it is proper to gestatoria that's the
problem with that dam self esteem movement is like you know they what you suppose to be telling kids is that who you are as more import who
you could be as more important than who you are because his ear leving as like what do you live in for are you owe your already everything
you should be it's like well you know you don't so what good is it growing up it's not helpful so i you say look man your fellowthatsolike
us worlds out there to conquer the things to do this people to help there's things to put right get the hell together get em together and
don't let your fear stop you as a hoist everything is great and your your your this wonderful child why would you want to then burn
yourself with a bunch of response you howarth doesn't make any sane or already good to go on right no unburdenment is no that's not true
because they're not like an about people in general notice because they are not satisfied with their life they have a feeling that there's
got to be more while there is more but the more reason by radical self acceptance of all your pathetic flower good ah extreme ownership
another book you can get it's about personal responsibility and how that will make you win as a leader so get that book if you don't have
it yet and if you don't have if you have it and you want your team to be better detour your team so that they start taking one sip the
promise and and then the problem targeting solved disciplined um field manuel it's out thanks to every one that bodit and made it into a
best seller on new york times best seller a walterton beseler those things are cool guess what appreciated appreciate all you out there
buying the book spreading a word all every one that sent peters of twelve blocks stacked up that your buying for every one on your team or
every one you know or your binocs as an your dad and your uncle thank you for doing that um because not only did it help the book you well
and is continued help the book to well it's also going help use betony opinion agree not that everyone's going to get it some people are
going to go this book is stupid impossibly now lay at an end what we talked about earlier some people read the book and they go ireton that
will of course you did but why didn't you do it bill why didn't you do it because some one obviously think you need do it so okay you get
it that's fine you know what you're supposed to do guess at we all know where sposed to do we all know what's going amine our station in
life and what kind of make it worse why aren't you doing the things you supposed to do question i don't know now you got a mayoyao wanted
to wit because you lack the discipline you lack the discipline to do the things you know you're supposed to do don't go you my delouche
fear suitably matters if you don't do it you matters if you leave things undone to leave the world in the uncompleted state and it hurts it
hurts you it hurts your family at her your society and it hurts the world so if you're lay in there being useless and not getting at it
then your contributing to the catastrophe and its tapile so it actually matters if you do it and i think sometimes people don't do it cause
they don't understand that you know there there down on themselves they don't think they matter s like he matter a lot more than you think
you you do and actually that's rather frightening you don't cause ye think well wouldn't be nice if everybody mattered it's like you got to
think that through if what you do matters you'd better look out so get at it cause you're going to pay for it if you don't so um to thank
you yes i i abiration of people an asking for the audivero and ike i said it's on the empyree platforms it's on goala i done amazon but
music potaties fatepoe i think you can ask your alexiopharmick thing in you the that if i thought masonic i think it automatically does it
i don't know for sure but you oh if you need some leadership support training at your team or your business ashalorn that is the bearship
consulted company its me lay fading to elaver in full adasaolan fondaco will come and get after it with you in your leadership to em if you
want to keep this conversation going you can hit all of us up on the interweb on twitter in stagra and now nothing is toltecos an echo
charles i am at jakaria george is jordan b peterson on twitter going b peterson on tube and doctor jordan be peterson on face book and like
i said you also have the pot cast as well echoes for the house thought that's it thank you so much he thanks for the invitation it's been
great yeh look like quirante same thing from different directions so as that nesan not so different even so that's pretty cool so ye good
anything else from you no don't think so preciate will get you back on here before twelve rules comes out an we'll talk about that book and
a little bit more detail how keen advance coffee awesome and thank you for coming on obviously the more portant thanks for being out there
thanks for spreading a positive message again very lying with what i say your coming up people from it if totally different angle than i
come from but that message i think is going to make people better which in turn as you do said is going to make the world a better place
and i know i know that you are working hard to make this happen and i truly appreciate the fact that you are doing that so now doesn't
doesn't seem like the anything better to do good villainousness kind o it seems like a basic curthe it is like the things that are so good
we could probably fix most of them so like what you got some better to do the not doesn't seem like yet let's at least have a good shot at
it yet right ideally exactly and to the people that make this poassible and that is these soldiers sailors airmen and the rine on the fun
lines who protect our right to free speech those folks that are living out the archetype of the hero there out there fighting the dragon
killing the snakes and protecting us from evil thanks to all users men and women for protecting us and two police in lanforre fire fighters
paramedics and other first responder think if keeping us safe all the home front and to every one else that is listening remember this
there is evil in the world there are snakes and there are dragged on and there are depraved human beings and pathology that can rip you
apart but there is also your world that you can crawl and you have the ability to stand up against the flanagans those snakes in our own
way and make your world a better place to stand up and get after it so until next time this is doctor jordan peterson and echo and jocko
how
