this is jacopo cast number ninety nine with eternal and me jackwell beating echo good evening it is a day forcalier go right into it i
let's do it jo he jokes the director of our sales department acquire my guides do fill up sales call interaction logs i have one die with
thinks because it sails are up this no longer is important nor does he have the time how do you have a situation like this okay so as i got
the coromantees before markenstein heem or can something close enough he and in your interesting a tale some people now scalot of people
may say hey you know once i know what you're going to say ye i don't like all yeats all some they say is only to hear it i am but i know
what you're going to say and i should look a cow that's got that mean is you know people are are started to expand or brain a little bit
maybe see a different perspective that they might not have before so that's good in my opinion right for now also what i realized it is as
he anas i axed the questions there's additional information right that comes out once you make a certain level of understanding than
there's more understanding to be had and so that's why i realized with this question as if it well o kayeth re's the standard answer right
the santerne is okay you got people to not doing what you want them to do and what do you do then well the fact is the real standard answer
that everybody now knows if you've enlisted arecas they need to know why they're doing what they're doing they need to know why it's
important that you do know how them filling out those forms will help the company and therefore help the individual that needs fell up the
forms because it'll provide better intel with to the company that will provide them more accurate advertising which will in turn make them
be able to sell more which you in turn may the cost to produce the product go down because there selling more and that means he has better
pricing to selling riffell some more macomo and the appetite helped thread through that's kind of the standard answered it everybody should
know if some one is not doing what you want to to do you need to make sure they understand why they need to do it wiepart how it is back to
that ocasion we get done with that standard answer now these the next lever right now we'll go an like to purple about sheen and here's the
non standard answer here's the advance dancer with the purple balanser is okay now let's ask yourself this piece of paper that your having
them fell out is it really actually important lemanis it actually important what purpose does it actually serve because you you want this
guy crushes a good producer his sails are up and you want him to continue to fill out these sails interaction logs so that you can track
and make sure that he's making enough calls that he's got a right the right approach that he's using the right verbage when he's talking to
his customers or clients and so you want him so it up an now he's actually doing well and you got to ask yourself like okay it what purpose
is this thing serving now that the guy is doing well what purposes is serving me maybe in a certain level you say no want you don't need to
fill that out my mare if you sell ten units a day you don't need to fill us out any more if he sell eight a dick you got a fellow your logs
cause we have to check on you what you're doing you that that's or or you just making this person do it because that's what every one does
m so if you can't if you can't answer the question yourself why it's important then maybe you should check the why you have this thing in
place so again we put things in place to help people but at a certain point it is possible that they don't need to do it any more at some
sales people if you know maybe you want people to make eight fone calls a day and you want them to walk down what they did okay what sort
of his guys do in twenty eight phone calls a day and any wants to get to thirty eight phonecall to day we can't because i ponatur paper
work it okay so if people are meeting the numbers may be raised the bara little bit make him great and and you give him more freedom he's
got the self discipline right i got the dispondaeus making the numbers his numbers are up okay give us more freedom may be can turned that
into morn production they can start the lad off guessa a bud if you keep seinte units to day we're good you need to fill out this crap o
you go to night your back on the back on of filling out favorites what you going to do himself ten every day's lesson twelve and a tall
fifteen year and then i would tell him i say he look have you sell fifteen unites a day i'm going to fill out a piece of paper work that
says you are awesome how many every time you selfishness i but little fun yet felt that it there's there's the there's the white maybe
three strike white belt answer every one should know at this point followed by little bit more advanced from abel move whom apodosis them
time that's not to say that it's guaranteed not important not at all we just seen make that i value aguita and there there is a chance that
i'm wrong right that the paper work that gets filled out actually really does get right into a doubt of file that can be then be used to to
you know target certain customers and follow up with her oconostota you explain it to the guy and how it's going to benefit him and were
back to answer numero which worked a year an right an wrong right and wrong are interesting concepts is an end people sometimes get wrapped
round right and wrong yet he innything that there's a writ answer in theirs a ronans wer ye a and and many times neither question or
neither answer is right or wrong or both answers are right and wrong no you got to open your mind my sticks you got open your mind you know
the will is as we talk about what you gittisham should it did said getchel be strict voudou professor everyone where the same uniform um
not allowed to ask people to roll or should it be a whereever you want did structor named jacko and going there and cruise in turnharn
which one is right they answer their both right out of those have benefits and some people flourish one kind of coin some people first none
other coniston you can't say one's right on same thing i used to run it is not within the children who tackle should we enter the room like
this or like this and the the answer is actually well what is better in that scenario and sometimes this one's better and sometimes it ones
better and so if your mind can be more open you'll be able to use more option which is beneficial yeah that's neokori me of one of my the
friend of a friend and on it was actually my friend friends wife and she was saying yes yes kind of making light of the fact that they
force their kids to watch a charger game or something on this day or whatever and the kids don't like football or the kid the one could
don't like the deslie football don like watching a well done it like this whole thing she and she was like all not that he is it's such
tradition you know so you know we make them do it as the tradition all the stuff some can think like okay i mean that's cool that it's like
your tradition but like no one likes it but what is the tradition going i mean i understand like if you ever tradition even likes it or the
edition and it improved like an opacous of the family in or something like that there and in a for all these beneficial reasons in one way
another benefit but i mean if you're doing it just for the sake of you know the tradition there like this paper were situation and also
would you do in it if you're telling your kids like no you watch the football game especially now that everyone hates the chargers as they
left san diego yet is i don't since but if you tell your kid ay now is the time for a family to get together and you've got to watch the
game but hang out or going to have some at ogs you you know what i mean and i hadn't were just that's what it is they're not about staring
at this at the screen watching something that you don't like esau hanging out you know grandma's coming over if aunt's coming over sir
we're going to cruise redeat yet barbecued chicken right yep a yenesei ha you sit down and watch the football game yes but when kids reach
a certain age they don't want to hang out with you first certain time perish that's what started my whole argument nighttown it wasn't a
argentopolitan my little discourse he that a certain time feared your children are supposed to revelant you a somewhat because eight to
they have to convince themselves in their mind that the the the they're goin to leave ye but there gontouts in their mind triggers that to
be like okay i need to separate myself from these other humans at eve been caring for me yet i was warning diapers yes and now i need to
get that out of my head and figure out how to survive on my own so they they do that by rebelling against you and sent owasso pid football
game yet i want to go to my friend mary house we were in new something over there right that's ye reddening that there's an element of like
a prentice when you're a kid and you hit like thirteen twelve thirteen years old you start to get this like impowered feeling you know
because you're like physically kingron up and then your parents are kind o you have the feeling of oppression not that your parent or
perivalians are totally that's exactly rose you i'm like it's lots like an actual rebellion is it a press me no more yet i have don't have
to ride with you you don't have to walk with you in the wall no i'm out ye antenor trying to do that for you realize subconsciously that
these people are not going to be here i need to look out to fend for myself i need to get out of the nest a yeah he onestar flapping the
ways but yes tenantless but treasonous for the sake of the tradition cause actually my hole are you man with the lady was that yet was
trying not necessarily prove but try to find out whether or not she thought about it like why don't you him an my yoraitians that are
important right when in a family within a culture but if you lose fact if you lose now understand the meaning of the tradition yet then it
doesn't make sense to you so then you don't care about it ye but if you haylock this a family and this is when we get together so the only
time it's your cession eseritoe yea and that we would get to know each other now we we keep connected you know can help each other casion
cohesion next quest too as the leader at what point of my allowed to go to others and say i need you because i recognize him not capable of
pushing toward forward on my own or should that be an instance where i need to take a step back in a fly more discipline to my life final
way to push forward by me okay you are allowed to you say that to your ten member immediately that you need them absolutely it if you of
course you need your team because we didn't need your team why would they be there if you if you can do everything yourself than to you
don't have a team right you just do everything yourself so while you of course should be working aroused be upon discipline as a leader
it's your job to actually lead things and to let other people support and make things happen and there's nothing wrong without you and and
also you don't want to be stuck in the weeds doing minute thing so it if you're not capable i think what might be holding this individual
back this to thinks noman is i feel like a stake extreme ownership of everything i feel i should do everything for self that is not what
extreme onerous she marsais doing everything herself and also what can come in a play is your ego could you not want ask people for help
and that's not a good sign it there is nothing wrong with asking people for help if you need it in fact that's the humble thing do hay i go
on now how to quite finish out this sub you know this thing of this project more out can you give me a hand with us i don't know how to
work a video recorder eshelby how to do that right whatever um so so there's no problem with that year loud to ask you can you can say that
immediately in fact your team should feel that you are counting on them in relying on them they should know that and then for your good
asked for help no problem but doesn't mean your giving away that doesn't mean you're not taking ownership that doesn't mean our not
applying discipline i mean your working as a team together to complish meserai if i diffamat is so easily that you could comsets do you
need to seamier you have em if you can do it all yourself just by applying discipline come near nelse if you're you but your mission should
be larger than one human being could accomplish so that's where you have other people on board to help you out yet no problem you know like
how we think wouldn't when that had we made it out of that question and i have a sou yoni let's say it's like something that's just a pain
in the ass and you don't really need help but you just don't want to do it by yourself oh okay wellingtonia the need that you got as your
isoline so that's kind of why this is come from ultimately because it's like i not saying the youth if you if you have a position in a
company where you shouldn't be doing some sort of task because it's not financially efficient to have you know a person that making a
hundred and fifty thousand dollars a year doing the task that some one that's making ten dollars an hour should be doing hum so soon do
that is not what i am advocating and accompany won't won't be doing well you if you're paying people honored to the thousand dollars a year
that you get some one to do for to noor not saying that so don't get me wrong yet but that's why we have a team so that you can focus on
going forward and whatever it is you need to be focused on and somebody that's below human the chain of command that's a member of your
team that's getting paid ten dollars an hour can do some of the stuff that you needn't do yeh yeh and the question actualis really clear
because it's because conquete because i recognize i'm not capable of pushing you know is there like an it's obvious to you that you need
now is not that your you know rekindled and not want to do this all by myself so hay you know ye tell your brother come help me not that is
different dip if you need to get to the lever ache and and you need him done by monday she get them in the bags so that the dump truck can
come and take the leaves away and you can't physically get it down then you're in any state your brother he can you give me an aye these on
to night for sun goes down you'll mocking note making in time can you mean yes your brother says excellently and a tutor back next west
what's the best way to deal with feet back you don't agree with my manager give my man or give to me the back on my personality that i
don't agree with i'm only in the company five months and he doesn't know enough about me to make the comments he's making i find myself
wanting a conant to contest with what is saying but i believe this will ultimately end portly for me is frustrating for me to listen to
feed back from him about my personality when my friends and family would disagree with him or cahoga is one as questions said i think
people at wistoat know what the answer is what you do in some one's giving you feed back this you listen to it and you joined make
adjustments get in their head and figure out where this is coming from that there obviously saying this for some reason and i may be the
reason is because they have a big ego or they they don't understand people very well met fine and if you know that then you just learn
something about them but also you you might not know yourself as well as you think you do and and obviously if you can test with some one's
saying you're going to look like you can't take pratikrita that's not a good approach to take of furthermore what you're saying is that
your friends and family wouldn't agree with this guy well yes what peirre lie family right it's like the deemonde know the dumays thinks to
do and as i do not answer but his mom think he's handsome and he you your friends in family think oh i can't believe that's it about you
well that's your friends in family there's a reason why you have friends as they like you yea they they whatever persparation ality is is
not cool there over it an it well this this boss the manager can't deal with it is not a deal with it yet so like i said winsome gives you
continue you should actually listen swipple have such a hard time with ye and you satellite in tokay won't maybe i'm to aggressive maybe
i'm you know to clothes mind did what it whatever whatever criticon you're getting listen to him maybe someone's i hey i don't think you
take quite well and you'll like we talkin about a horse i take it he qualitas what that's my point so and the other thing like i said is in
doing this a manager's actually telling you something about it they are personality and and their views and their judgment so long from
that learn what their pretty their teaching you about their personality which is going to help you better influence and not bulan work we
work with that person a future and perhaps help make them into a better leader and a better supporter of what it is at your triads come
down the lax one of the best things you can do and some one with someone says to you have in your schools of with a calculation nonelevator
when i take notes on a sure i i understand where your coming from sorkin i can make him justement more looking to get better be that might
be a little extreme but you know yes no holloaed let me keep my note book yes sir i can take no desiato get better all my over tis that do
you little asinaean had isolated like not some people some little take me you know how i rouly like take the taking notes sicamous when i
was running to the west coast seal training the the good officers but there'll be small to win when i be putting out word to him it betaken
not yet in a ananias in wifis some kind of like serprised me ye in i can this guy straight up taking no tootles on on on conversation he
sitting there like taking no diagonaled am full but if he said it with your telling be like hold on all jocoseness is some foinet up my
don't but on one otiositas ic nay but there's also not to just being sarcastic i was leaning towards more like the brown nose ah that
guitar you in to be safe back for one second i want to get my note out so i tried that you what you tell me to do i sent body again with a
tone having you know on a wolf middle ground i think the who is it seardon i think pointing out on twitter something about tommy and body
language it in some psychological survey made up more than half not what did did actually being said yes and i heard that to m and i was
like a hen that sounds cool but i mean you know there may be may be not because if someone says something that's pretty clear but the hand
i the kind o stuck with me and it's true anti could literally say the same light out noten words to you in all these different tones and
not being ten different things o for sure like you can like it's actually battling in surprising how much weenty could municate like if i'd
if i make a joke to you like something you don't know my level of sarcasm you don't know necessarily you have to know the person you know
liking so this all these things that that have to be in place for you to effectively be communicated to their so like its say you over her
conversation in the next room like you could easily miss the whole point of the conversation even though you heard every word because you
do know if there joking you do of their serious you do know for one day's mad you know for as getting fleeson they can take the same exeter
they can say the same exact words but they're just sane different things coming from divelicated your nobleman proms with the mail yet or
some one emails a joke yes joking about some eleeison takes it seriously and nagaou know people are flying off the handle yet i was had
that rule in my seal petunias you weren't loved joe on the radio ye in the main reason for that rules because you you don't want other
people outside our organization to hear it and take it wrong way same thing but the same time with email mess you know some one really
really well mitral really well and better it's better to keep the sarcastic comments and tapestried and and speak plainly enter an email
you communicate with you to the lot it's a lot easier and then even with that potassae from this even with that you could easily come off
his like two rigid or yet or it can this guy this cannot like me you know like a eretrian email and like that's why communication is
important that's why burning out to right well this important that's why little words that you put in matter it is in the phrases in the
sentences they matter a difference thus the vent invention of emagination ami moi livery and do mojale i i sometimes i i i i must say that
i think you communicate very well with hemostatics even though you don't sometimes use words in attacks to me i fully understand what you
mean by lightning both lightning both light and not rainbow rainbow lightning bolt sums up socair shock a fire and very clear i had right
on a i agree i agree with that he shock a fire ever about fire you do quite a bit of fire yet a lightning bolt in player a youth in them
the shock of pressure and the rain but with you either a bow a they got a lake not the engineer seems like a child i don't you know like a
motion i don't like a mode but you're kind o like that i realize you know i know but it's it seems like to me it was that beats like a kid
i may be your little daughter would do it as one it's little my daughter will send me eight and seventy five a motes from my wife's fontal
of em deification in one and i in back fokey yes he but you're like that in real life too though that's the men like if you like if you you
know that you are running the risk of sounding to like you know like stoic or whatever you know like if easy if you have to answer question
with yes when in whatever the question is it's a esterno question in you answer yes affirmatively night it at yelpt yes period and that'll
come off as i got calasiao what out with his guysers or something you know he steadies exclamation point yes to exclamation points lighting
most fireroom anemia that give away a little bit more lionors like yes is as if you just looking some one in their eye your yes that's
arabian i know that samatsin you're any like that and raife ah that a right on anyway lightning bolt fire ye man lesemajeste there don't
know vere do i double shocker dolosae what's the highest level of a mood a mojarra yousen me three lining but three fires three shockers
dreariness ferretlike you that i like you shouldn't before for a time any you know oh lasteways though so like if there is if it's a word
on the fowl in the word woodlike that's that can be infinite or wallenhout out an now you know like you'll tell me something exciting and
i'll put it on an awfully dang instead of dangier de lower case a benigloe of excitement a a a a a takin go infinitely by the way atkinsen
twenty texas is even over twenty days he no tell him finical be on the first aletes a lord case the second avatea upper case that anne may
be ten ends sees all capital than you know the suitorless they have well like i said i think you communicate well i be as one of the
onontios now in regard to communication that is effective to know what i mean you and enemy love excitement as the power you cool perion
you you you were your fantaisie eyetalian that like a a he again you alex question if you already you anacaona good arranged bodies the
arabo of a sadozais lay you dearest jocko speaking of light hearted a nice emotions dearest jocosity by mother cajole what is the
difference between extreme ownership versus the easy button can you elaborate i just need a little more clarification that connect the dog
in my situation or carry a agen so as leader yes of course you are supposed to take ownership of everything extreme or ship of everything
that's what we talk about all the time but does this mean that you say i will do this and i will do that and i will do the other thing i
will do everything that the tea is supposed to be doing no that the not what i'm talking about now orders does me that you get things done
you are responsible for making sure things get done that's what ownership is it is artemis in charge of something if our teens in charge of
project and and we don't get it now if my faults anybody else's fault so that that's what it is it means you take responsible to the things
go wrong it means you take responsibility for problems and you get them fixed to that definitely ownership now the easy button on when i
talk of the easy button and negative way good it's what i'm doing here it's when you're subordinates come to you and say how shall i do
this or or was the best way to exalt this or can you can you tell me a good plan on on how he should make this happen or even hate is bad
news kin you come tell my people because i don't really want to do it now if you say yes day those types of things the one regular basis
then what you're doing is your actually your actually stunting the growth of your subordinate leader because i said will you come to me you
say i talk while at the mite got a plan how do you think we should do it if i say okay we should come in from the north you should do you
set up on over washbasins she moved him the targettin e e you did an learn anything you just took when i told you in tenison go come up
with your best winding come back to mary me on it and so now he you might be kind of bummed out because you wanted edition have to do this
extra work but now you got to go to the war to work but now you're learning and in two or three times you're not even come ask me no more
your income of a plan and because we already did a side oxidate cycle of you say hey here's my plan of my ain a make this just men and you
come back natiya here's my plan i said make us little just men and eventually you know to make us adjustments on your own now you can do by
yourself and that's what we want i don't want to stunt the growth of my subordinate later so i don't want to be and these button um the so
you're providing the easy button like that's what they're talking about when the easy but to you yet you a lot of be that you don't want to
be leadbut royale and also no one can be able to take your job from you what is actually what you want you have i want to make every one of
my suborders good that they can take my job from me that means i can step up and look forward and look out and they can do a better job of
handling what they've got and one events they went my time to get promoted i got people to take my place and we're all good um of course
that doesn't mean leave them blind or let them sail don't do that give the you aren't give them rope but you don't give him enough rope to
hang themselves now you give him enough rope that they may be get a little knot in the rope and i hate disoit robbing you and then you go
over to his hay is mother love help you get that on time and now you give him the rope again mary so you don't eat you know an i o in the
military you you don't let some one go to a mission that's real were some as got get hurt killed were mission failure because you wanted to
not be the tyburn he don't do that then the civilian actor you don't let someone lose a big quiet or lose a bunch of money or make a
mistake the cause a bunch of capital because you will didn't want to be the but no no i'm now might you let some one take a little stakes
little mistake the castalotte little money sir so they learn a lesson sarbut you don't want to fall your place you don't let them hang her
hang themselves so that's that next wisheart joco a question for you and the potestate promotion process has rolled playing scenarios those
rolling scenarios a loose points because i'm not outwardly passionate coniquet enough i would have to face it to succeed and i'm not a sick
person is this worth it to face it on seeking promotion is not like a going to face it once i attain the promotion i carry this is a zever
coquettin ringhorn on and actually on the sky sent me to corsetta book i responded very quickly and simply my response was play a game yea
so faceplate the game and and you'll he wrote back got it yeah yenoo for him saskashiwan everybody i think thinks i'm going to say is at no
hubers get no ihata act all passionate about stuff you you you are cordon ye playgame now you you as you was your doing you play the game
ever you wanta do a good job and your doing your job and do your job to me any job repairs so level of faith in it he now does this mean
that you are fakers no into your trying to do a good job think you every time that your boss came in with a dumb idea and you re reaction
was to say defaded a bagonet your work for every time a costumer head and eighty eighty eighty otic complaint about something you were like
a earned year every time your wife said ah you know is this chicken dry and i said it's drier than a piece of cardboard in the saharees is
that for easingwold you would you benefit from that how to work out o they are jersey would he would not work out well in any of those
cases you have to play the game ye have to play the game and i know i know that that's hard and i'll tell you what i did to get myself over
plain be game i i turned it into a game and in my head i was like an amiable relationship with this boss that i don't like and they do it
i'm not don't be best relate that my game i'm going to come to become this guy's brow right but when i was at affected at school you got a
due the most ridiculous rules they have the seas rule that you've got a fall that were really annoying m a you know what i did i i executed
the rules a harder and more stringently than that anybody thought was even remotely necessary and had fundit i played that game i you know
if i've got a pier that may be um competing with for her some tension i'm going to support them in a play a game and some say you got to
play the game now this is make me a bad person or fat person no why because you're doing this the reason your playing the game the reason
or act asked acting this way is four but nevlinski this this guy the fatuate he he's not trying to get promoted so that he can you sir the
powers and i take over no he turned a gettin to position where he can better lead and serve and and step up and raised young leaders
underneath on that that's what you're trying to do you're not trying to sneak into a position you don't deserve an you're not trying to
build relationships said you can take advantage of people for your own benefit that that would be a fake person yea in my opinion your
trying to move but if you're trying to move up in rank so you can do better and you can take care of the troops and you can increase
readiness there is nothing wrong with that and if you don't play the game as at some level you you're not going to get promoted and guess
what then people that played the game that might be less less qualified to do that job there in a gift the job because you wouldn't play
the game your two stubborn your ego is too big she got a potatie and i'll tell you something else learn from what your being told m i if
your showing no passion of your showing like the zero motion that's bad people will not connect with you and if they don't connect with you
they don't follow you if they don't connect with you you're not building relationships of people if you have relations if we feeble you
don't have a good team so show a little bit of passion sometimes you got a face at that's fine yours disarray unpassionate person corps
show little but a passion um fake it a little bit learn it a little bit yes actually held to be better fisher would love for you to take it
for it awhile until you start carrying what i like what do you not pass on about are you not passionate about the job are you not
passionate about your fire fighter not saving people rives are you not passiont having the squared way to partment you of course you're
passionate about that stuff although as you wouldn't be you wouldn't be send me a ototsan hey how do i get is vanitia do better ye you are
passionate out it and that's flying it's good um i say all time you know if you don't have any motions that you are robotron's people don't
follow robots maso sometimes you got a show a little bit of that emotion of passion to connect with people that's yet don't be scared any
garnet because that's really the thing right is showing it o course you your passion and about showing it different people the something
friend i did it i i one always be like showing how fired up i am all the time or whatever it in whatever scenarioed you're right that does
help the rifle you you wont you lesui about this it's an there's a there's a tiholme here you because there's some people that will show
too much emotion yes and there's some people that will not show enough will you on to be somewhere bounced than the middle years sue and i
did it too one because it does me like taking it because i can for infant ball that tradition is like to be fired up on the side lines in
such novels an it's a just lesson that in for praise some one you not the energy for that is in him you kind o just nervous you on to focus
on what you had to do or whatever you know but it's kind of part of the game you know and and it does help the pepoon you too melick he's
far it up okay maybe i'm not part of now but he's kind o get me fired up you know any kind of like helps tiedeurs sometimes it doesn't feel
it comfortable to do express outwardly you know i'll passion but it helps plus is fake like faking it that's like a framing thing do you
know i like you very and frame your facing it verses i you set your plan the game right your plain the game because you want to do a better
job yet on a get promoted you on a you want to get promoted for the right reasons e there is nothing wrong with that yet that's an that
good i think if you can kind of band and stretch yourself in an uncomfortable wait for the genito know you know i think we're people that
term of faking it no one wants to be a fake of her right right yes when i antimony while you are correct in that the way that's framed is
i'm being a fake person and no one wants to be a fake person o at the same time you have to grow into have to a just and if you can to be a
leadership position your gun and do things that you don't that you wouldn't a plan i do that all the time i maithili tary you don't i work
with people that i be ill set his toitoi work to people both below me the chantyman and up above me in the chase can that i despised they
never knew it that in one they are right now than i but you know the outer roaming the ways that make me a face person no makes me a
professional man in me a professional doing my job because i wasn't on to let some little personal emotion of mind or some o that guy does
this one like that so i'm not going to like him and and now we have an adversarios ip an now i be got a problem he no i'm playin the game
play the game whatting what is the thinkers mishandle well up i sings yet we with a line as the line is if you go get sight your principles
are you know so you got fundamental principles that they say oh if you want this job what we need to you to do is fill out a report about
billy saying that he did something wrong that you know he didn't do wrong right then you go no marking to do that that that that's what
that bad right that's not now you're not just playing the game now you're going against your principles of being an honest person about
what's happening ye this that's really what it is right that the honesty when you're a fatrasie if some of like the olympian or in being a
fat person hisitated person like turning on some passion for manufactured passion for the sake of the teams like that that doesn't feel for
like europaean figures in kendale you'll sit like some on onorable some of them the room and you're like a you're great that sure it looks
great and you're doing a great job they leave and really for us socks right at you nor easily tell you the difference in the reason that
some one the reason that you had consider some one and be angry that some of the face person is when they are doing it because it they're
doing it for personal benefit oh they're they're saying they like if if if if you were my boss and i come in and i say he corleone hair cut
looks great really think that there caledoniam goin to say that anyways an everyone knows that all i want do is get that next promotion yeh
that's being a faith ye make at being face but if if i'm saying as one of my really do it what i'm doing is i'm i'm i'm making an
adaptation i'm glowing i'm i'm doing something that all uncomfortable with because i know it's going to make me a better leader m l that's
what i should be doing a string to become a better leader now again if that if if in this whatever organization what you have to do is is
due something that you don't agree with and it's it's the wrong thing to do and you do anyway as women then that's that that that's a
malatoba different thing there's that then there is a om going to kiss this so that i get promoted real about me and that's probably the
what we think of the definition of a fake person eecitin i saw a weakness in you on your latest poncas you seem to overlook the fact that
some infant children were raised in undisciplined environments with undisciplined parents they grow up paving modeles undisciplined
examples i hate the fact that i have growth undisciplined behaviour solving this is a major priority of my life you have ver idea of what
it of what this experiences like from me you seem blind to this struggle like a father who would ignore their child's struggle and offer
only the words manso that the aggression and i i she were a this coscommon from for sure and i know that it can be very very frustrating to
try and become disciplined and i pologize that haven't talked about the fact of of what to do if you come from an undisciplined family or
you have undisciplined parents i have really talked about what to do in that situation but there's a reason that i haven't talked about
that before and that is because you don't get discipline from your par of you don't get discipline from your parents from your grandparents
from your older brothers and sisters you don't get ghiselin from an external source you have to get it from you that's a self discipline as
you get it from yourself you give from you so there's people from every possible background from no parents to crazy parents to you know
drugged parents to super squared away parents and everywhere in between all that spectrum that are completely disciplined people more
disciplined than any one i know it doesn't come from your parents you don't inherit it and there's another piece er it's called ownership
right it's called ownership and if you if you want to blame other people for the problem in extensive time if you don't take on as you put
the problem to promise of iguala you blame your parents for not having raised you in a discipline environment you are not going to solve
that problem you're looking your parents into you would a done a better job being more disciplined for me i would be more discipline now so
that means that means you can't do anything the fact the matter is it's wrong you act we can do something and it doesn't matter what how
your parents raised you and brought you up you can have the disappoint you need to decide to do it so as long as you're blaming other
people i mean it i you bring me for not discussing you blame me for having deride what that experience is like you blame your parents for
not raising you this way long as your blaming other peoples on as your contenantes people to give you discipline as long as you do that you
will not have it so again i i'm sorry should i made that i should make that more clearly i'm trying to make it more clearly now and like my
parents my parents are argued people they had successful careers as as educators in public schools and my mamatee went into school of
industrious my dad talked in high school for thirty something years and they were good hard work of people and of but all telotte were no
they would know extraordinary preachers of discipline and i'll do you intact i never remember either one of them ever using the term or
referring to discipline any way um you know astley parents work they both worked a lot my dad was coaching sports and were doing after
school stuff my mom same thing like we were on our own a batch but my parents were gone in the morning we got ourselves to school when we
are home and afoot weren't home ah you know so it wasn't like they were setting up this rigid discipline manner from meriting and um and
you can see this with families many many different families there's families that have kids that the parents are very disciplined and kids
are wild and our control to nomes at problematically so right kids that come from really good families but they get addicted to drugs lack
of discipline kids it come from really good families but they they spin out of control and in going the wrong direction and there's also
the opposite which is a the parents were a round of the parents were abusive for the parents were drug addicts and and all the comoedies
out of that in inquired away as also and it was saw that all time the sultans of said that before in this program doesn't matter it doesn't
matter where you're back ground is is what you decide to do you um anteater thing it's not even from the military like the military
requires disappoint obviously but there's plenty of people in the military that don't have it right and and many poor many people lose
their discipline when they leave the much because not being imposed on them any more so i mean just go look round i mean being in the
military does not make you discipline person being frontispiece family does not make you dishonest being in a discipline group does not
make you disponere what makes you dispenreas is choosing to be discipline so the i i and it also as far as telling people the man up um
which you know when some one says how do i get a really every day i say get up real every day how i stop initiating gorbutt's the
definition of man about obvious is not just men that need this pontoonlike i don't think i use that term but what i do tell people is to
get after it that's what i tell people to get after it i tell people to do the things that they know they're supposed to do right there's
things that you know you're supposed to do as a human being things that you know are going to prove your life do those things there's
things that you know are going to make you a worse person and make your life horse don't do those things don't do the things that are
making you weaker start to restings that are going to make you stronger and smarter and faster and helfandt get to make you better human
being and i'll say the same thing to this guy you want to be more disciplined get after it but it an get up early do some kind of work out
he good food coming your room make a list of things that your supposed to do in your wife and then wake up in the morning and do those
things but you put on the list that's what disappoints and no it is not easy to not goin to get it from any one else but you and it's worth
it and it is the thing that is going to bring you freedom that's the key word right there when he said it's worth it you let it to loathing
i think like in an environment as like how he put it in undisciplined vironment or under something like that where he grew up in an
undisciplined environment i don't obviously that the very vague expression at reunion of our bit i i mean a coming along at the unliving so
i let him take on you brought up in a certain fire meant basically your kind of taut or or not taught like like the value of certain things
so if youse like un an a working up or whatever right so times myself in as an example my dad was an athlete um you know it not this super
athlete but he was you know he he knew like working out was a part of life and snowlight and you know an elementary school were doing
sports and stuff like that you know some people they don't do that at all so and when they grew up into a dulcet then some people straight
up has never worked out before never been in a gym and you know so growing up they they were never taught the value of what work in not
does for you i never taught so the cantorei it they just simply don't know the value o surely see people with you know you know very in
shape where they can do these things and their very function whatever they see that of course but they don't have that value they don't
feel that value say they just never learned it so it it can come off as like testing for other people you know like all that's what other
people do cinating so they don't understand the value so back to the point in their mindness weird the connection is not made that it's
worth it because they will know the value of a really but if you do know the value of it and then you can decide okay is this worth it is
it worth it to wake up every day in in confuged after it for this particular goal or the this particular set igls so that's what it think
sure the undisciplined environment can may be provided that but i think you are right i think that once you're like all yetta's worth it
yeow people we'll find reason on its worth he even though they've never expectin don't like a person who has a heart attack or something as
i and they have kids on gideon they have hard to tell i've lady never worked out every their life they have hard attacked almost died there
like asathor ing out every single day i a vegetarian now you you know like doing major major changes that they've never even thought about
making then they'll do it because they do ittai and they'll be this went mill find that disabling real quick no matter how they were
training him as you know very environment on their graecia's going to be war oretta's it yes and if if it's not worthy to use and that i
think is what you develop the value of working out the value o you develop you can develop that from anywhere i that's one of rats
pitteously that as far as i early developed that from any any you can help that from from anywhere you yet you can get from parentine right
exacting but the discipline itself just like i said that's going to come from you your parents can teach it but guess southeast deepest you
it's all you and you can go to the military to specifically learn discipline when you leave tonewanta right and just like i said like you i
don't people who were done with the military and are glad they're done with that mother glad with this waking up early in the therankathera
ic monster out of shape sir not do any empedocles it is horrible to see a but it happens happened it the military half with anything as we
kids get out of high school sports you and all so they don't want her to do that any more i tell tenacity crazy to all as the coach listen
to yourself yourself yet determine whether or not it were at it and i'm telling you do you need to german i'm telling you it's worth l i a
m ten you is worth to and you do want it so to actually no it's worth it that's why you're asking this question do you know i know it's
work in it you know it's worth it to have this one when you think there's an easier way on you think that it's something that beeple have
you think that when jacques alarm clock goes off as like oh just like my father taught me i rise and i shine in on like no i i it's like
the pillow fellow and comfortable here any alarm clock is banging on my head an he don't like it you know what i know it's worth it to get
up and get after it i know its worth in an you know it's worth is a thing though we all know it's worth is in in a way you're right but
like really though he really on the beat opopen in honest you i don't think that the people know its worth it i think they know it's worth
it like the kind on paper no other amalie choice question is it worth it yes or no they'll be like yes i'll be sly i know working out is
worth it but here's the thing i don't if you don't know if you don't like like having good credit for example so i never got taut like why
really my mom said you you should have greit that's it that's the limit so like education on credit it so of course they're below it
because they get you know i fall for a literally all the trick sense inflicted and otherwise credit its gemmed up so a good sort o o i
don't know the value i don't know i have never experienced the benefits of having good cried don't know the value of the credit to really
didn't mean much to me reely my credit was like junk and i didn't care until i got denied for something then i cared you know but just like
if you never into working out until you are in a specific sucrier out show but but but like this guy is asking his question and guidsake
corsini not in train i'm not trying to come off all hard um but she realized he realizes that i dispense he saying that he wants it right
he knows that it's going to make life better yes and and that's why i think he he's gotten jammed up in a ever way we don't know cause i
don't know maybe he's gotten unhealthy maybe he's you know who knows maybe i's got his finances jim up whatever the case may be he knows
that this one is better for them him he knows that he does know this isn't a guy that doesn't know yet cassirer's people at don't you know
when you're sixteen years old you don't know the value of discipline you know that the what you're at a racing anosin affect you in five
years you don't know you can say self your loife to be pretty awesome yet you don't know that yet you're just like worried about where
you're going on a friday night in a new so this guy knows and he wants it and he's looking for where he can find it and where he could find
it is in the mirror he that's where it is you know said do it brother good luck get on the path and stay on the path ye and that's going to
be beneficial one you do that i stand harshly maintaining that like not knowing the values of big is big thing is kind of like a gay so
back to my credit thing it vere's a point at the end where okay soul ah you don't like onotarse ago whenever i i repaired my credit at my
credit was repaired a foot i went the less pain staking not fo stuff now but i did it got my preterea and now i know the value because as
an adult in functioning it useful now you know so now i know the value of having the credit because i've been throughout things that having
good credit brings you though you know now i'm thinking i'll never go back to beccarie never it's right it everythingless you at that i
agree with what you're saying you i agree with her saying i'm saying that this guy knows the value that's why he wants it yes that's like
when you freeze that you got denied for something and you lot o o credit has value i understand that a something happened in his life well
you said discipline has value i know that now but you did credit repair and in what you said was okay i need to go out and repair my credit
you didn't say hey you know what my mom didn't tell me about that credit now i have that dread it if yer so now you're now would i missus
to do you who to repair your credit who are hard your credit well it was combination of my wife and i but you'll arbuto repaired your mate
yeah we dissau took responsibility for it to do any get my credit levitator wife because she smarted that you yes he was high hey i won't i
will help this but was you that said okay i got a skit this fixed and you got help but you knew to reach out for help but you are the one
that ultimately is responsible for it yes you're right about that like i didn't like and in blame my parents and then continue having
baterino ring like them said no i gotta get to disattiring has credit has value i need to fix it ye and you fixed it you know regarder
regardless so what will a you know oh you don't not a work out cool that you go hire personal trainer could you know is going to it the
right thing to do you don't ee oh you don't know how to repair your finances cool go get a count of the inthel your very orimanes oh you're
addicted to drug jacal okay i'm onto find a count or a join a group i can get through that thing on no one's going to hold your hand and
bring you into any those situations you've got to do yourself gather dispone make it happen yehudah number save good morning did you find
that people in the military mock bose that emphasized the importance of good leadership who take leading and are responsibility seriously
what is that mean mocking like glanton of humble like what people in the military making making fun of you because you take leadership
preserves all yea yea the amapolise this is an interesting question so an i make me a little bit nervous because my suspicion is that this
individual might be going about being a good leader the wrong way and if you go about it the wrong way people can take offence to it if
you're a guide that goes around telling everyone that you are a leader in your train to be great leader people take oenanthic make that
power of your thing right able that talk about the importance of good leadership or if i come across as implying that they are good leader
and and that can be offensive especially if you are quite as good of a leader as you think you are so rinon like you understand how
mordantly you shapes ye adroiter standing ports a leadership back olalla adonis to you like amateuring you're not read when the realities
just wear im talking prose at an argalia i'm talking down to you yes so we have a problem right there and also if if you take leading and
our leading responsibility seriously was that actually meant to disseminate you can't have any fun with your team does that mean you can't
laugh at yourself when you made a mistake does that mean that you are trying so hard to give off the impression that you are a great leader
that it appears to every one else that you aren't really who you act like an that your character is is disingenuous ready if i'm if i am
constantly trying to put up this font that i'm the great leader every one starts look at me thinking that has not even that's not that's
not a real him he sinrock around like a like a he not true right you you think about your trying to build trusts a leader we we are trying
to build trust we talk to you dick winter's talk about honesty being the most one of most important traits of a of a leader but if at
putting up a facade and how we act that does not come across as honest then that doesn't go just in fact a buildest and also if if if you
have to put up a leadership front if you have to put up a leadership front if it in other words if sometimes you have to act a certain way
facit going back to something earlier if you have to act and face like a leader that means you might be you might be insecure about your
leadership capability and you will come across as internecine that it security so that he can be very problem at it also if you're so into
being a good leader that probably means that you have issued giving up the reins that means that you are probably micromanage because you
want to be a leader you want to prove every one of your a good leader and so you start my croaning and no one wants to follow in my comatae
they don't want to do that and if you add all these things together what what what do you people end up doing they end up most king you do
they end up making the things that you think are important like leadership that self they start to make fun of it it's a man the it's like
de needle matthias name is needleman house is is is it the right way on anichino doing mosely refrainings noted up ah like an give you john
blusheth so there's etiolated the the orotchyses like a listerine one makes one of him ye he's trying to be a great leader is trying to be
the authoritative figure every one is making fun of em so you have to be careful in this case i would recommend you moved to the center
little bit more meaning out on the one hand you have a leader that isn't building relationship isn't building trust expects people to do is
there told than and treat treat that leader with respect to even a lahaina that's not a good leader on the other hand yaller that are to
close with the true has very personal relationships to personal relations it for the team and has lost any semblance of a forty over the
teams of theirs you to extremes you want to be balanced in the middle you want to build relationships of de people you want to build your
team up in also forseeing leadership on the people does not work any more then forcing a religion or a diet or a worked out or a political
breed belief system and can you make some one from a foreleech perspective if you have a forty over other people can you make some one bow
down to your programme mechanically for a little while yet you can you can't but if it's not from them if they are not part of it willfully
it's not going to work over time so you know don't be people overtly with your leadership lessons don't make it your eternal religion that
you are forcing on people internally yes of course if viously my i always thought about leadership i always thought about bearship that
wasn't barking it and i i don't even think i don't even think like my the best de people that taught me the boast about leadership they
never said a word to me about a year i m right and i'm not saying that that's the best course of action because because sometimes it is
good to you know pull some one as idea hey thisaway you're after right now from your troops in that thatlosen said sometimes that is good
especially once you built the relationship cause if i don't ever latinship with you acton i say hennetit to you heterogeneous recognising
going to go over very well with them what your action every you're past you you think all you do know my gods ye know them betimes we're
goin to have problem i did accomplish nothing my coaching and then turning of you as horrible as we did never relationship so sir you're
not listening and obviously of course when i start coaching and men during that implies that i am the greatest leader fall time that's my
inveloped save esoon grate which people reject that as well especially when you're not back great believer in the first place so don't talk
about it so much just league be a good leader open up the scussion take arapoff come look from the flank instead of going straight on
maneuver tactically and tacked flee get into their heads and make better leaders by actually leading eyes can like that leaned by example
and think it kind of makes you like the question cut i said at the beginning it makes you wonder he says the question is defend the people
to military monotonize the importance of good leadership you kind o think you safwan er how this person is and asidente import or in orgon
is he the guy at the party who you know the beer talking about on another the food or something that he just must a leadership stuff
selatan know who's like everything on electorate like greeting jumping he's just pushing it everything i know leadership is everything
leastwise the bright weren't even talk about that leadership is everything in an i know what work this is coming from a a person me that i
literally talk about leadership in idly in the innately think that way and i i get up on stage and in companies and in foro military
members and police optional about me or seats when i talk about all done ye an that's what you know it's interesting that's what makes
about face but coldevin had orthone of the best things about that book as it's not a leadership book he doesn't kiss talk as he barely
talks about he barely says a straight forward said to the use of this is how you lead at all from the flank and that's why it gets you so
well because it's from the flank you it's not a book allerions it you don't i how many books get published all the time you know that his
leadership i wrote a book would lay how to lead and when ye thackerian acordada or read it yes yes in a way i desegno that your job well i
guess my point is that if you're if this is coming from some one who talks about leadership all the time literally wrote a book about we
ershi yet and i'm saying hey you might not want to talk to letters in my amy far rita's my point yet good point just just just back off a
little bit yes so if you were like you know you go on the road you do one of you you know your deals and then you know at dinner with your
family you start going into your leadership stuff with the thatlosen at you yes yes but i'm when i'm saying is with your team with your
poltoon you don't sit there and say all right ay we're going to talk about leadership again yes you don't quit a quote emphasizer nce of
good leadership right you you jam in the late yet lead ye to th they're smarter than you think there you know where you're intaducin a
condescending one can't help it toucheth like they don't know you want to talk about the importance we do they know what the important
legendary yea in fact an example of veryain of how people take it when you start preaching to them you know they take it they mock you
seceshener tell that's a lessened people are mocking you there not taking you seriously that i mean you re doing something wrong what
you're doing longinis case is your condescendingly talking to them about the importance leadership they know what the importance all
leadership that ye there in the military i know how bad it is to have a bad botoner or bad but to all a put tomcod they know don't need to
rub it in their face ye remember i think i told you the story beloutin of my friends not in names name cause a sortie you know you said
nettie we had a party and he got out calanthe's sitting at the table explaining to all of us how bad asked me feels a ye like for a long
time now this is the end he even saddles were nicolaus bad asked like worse that i solicitest exact same thing because we know naseeb you
sitting here telling us to bed as you and ye all may be solar is going to make a smacking moriana little bit o to a lady in my baineses by
the attesting that stuff you know she wolf i'm glad that this guy is asking before i shouldn't i'm glad to be guy is focused on leadership
and i hope that these points can come across and be digested with no um you know there's really to get offended my aim saying right if you
your amulet will you sestett you know what i mean really to say that he was is you you afreedees no ease talking about i'm the one that's
here i'm trying to get these guys to be better eat a worm turning my but to onderstand it portales ip i know man a known i i respect them
on like the fact that you are have that mind and that's all true that's fossett's awesome company frank a little bit onofrion you not going
to you not goin a do not goin to get that get it down this way he it's kind o like if you try to convince her on that you're the most
humble person in the yourn body more humbled in me on the most humble humble than that guy i'm on loving you in enliven any one food that
who ever lived just more fumbling in the world just doesn't work in a adoncques ion jocko how do you lead a team of volunteers how to
punish or discipline them can't threaten to fire them because they are all i have i know leader does so much more than threatening plenish
but i need some guidance try to moto try to motivate but feel the need to do more than cinerator i want to to this is kind of a course so
answer before the different form um do they understand why they're doing what they're doing and do they understand why it's important do
they understand how what they are doing will benefit them do they also see you working hard to try make things happen so those are these
this tibiscus on this just get those out there every time every time some one is not doing what you want them to do do they understand why
they're doing what they're doing do they understand why it's important to the mision and do the understand how being successful the mision
will benefit them so so let's just get those out of way next what can we do here have you gained a five the situation at all how you like
that i am hierat have you gave a five the storan could i i realized that a terminating thrown around that but we would game a five stupid
things all the time in the sultans to make them fun ye right how much brass can you pick up let's see i'll take a more than you my
quanatack a more brass and you'll pick up old sunneen the range trying to pick up rason of the most miserable things that you have to do is
helfenstein up rose off the hot range and the summer time hum an you do it for for like two days cause want you get done with all your work
to go to go pick up with melyinaares spread out all over the desert in in august in the imperial valley that hot it socks but as we are
going to do have a contest in desirata you goin to do the game of filial kind of cool competition around some short turn goal can you set
up that's goin to be as gonna make it fun for them some kind of cool reward what about some kind of friendly bats around achieving
something like i bet if i raised this much money you know i will go to work with the pair of underworlder re you asked her you know what i
mean whatever tintop in that you know what we used to do in the teams is we'd be one dollar when i old runnin mates we we we had something
like critical a beton dollar where that was like the biggest bet you could make her causticities and now and then we do we at ease at fun
if you were collecting or if you're giving the dollar collecting the hour with just totally glorious yeah giving the dollar was shame ye so
ye like you could add like okay when you give me this dollar a test me in front of her body you have to an don't know you have to do it
while like walking in your needs is some something to repair if you meaning you know but we didn't even have to do all that ye heroes
undermine my rudiment we've won or lost a bet and a little alose that you know and and you wouldn't even ask for the money you just look at
this by in my head on the most classic locke give you the look her i lose a bet to many gave me the look i i i wanted to cry he lost some
yet more than that at last a more so maybe make a bed for a dollar and if that's not working i can not that now or if you can't gave a five
you can't have fun with it maybe asked them while there why they are there and in figure out what their motivation is for being there now
you can tie them in something conquered and then also the like you might have some people that her are really into this man then lower your
expectations of this particular group of people garagoule i want to get after it means yeah absom fun fun goes a long way ye fun goes a
long way perhaps you found doing things goes a long way and and that praise think do you know when you sit like a like a reward something
for cause a lot insectival unters were so enamel feel this like even at that work you can have like a perfon job that you get yelep gentle
she speaking ten to get complacent in one way another you know one things are routine or things are you know not as exciting or whatever up
and you know when your volunteering and that happens it's kind like you're not tied there by a paycheck really you know which is just is
just a powerful tie you know that people have to work it's like yet ling my job but it's baseballs and paying a bill is a big deal casting
so if you add that element of excitement or fan or you know little personal pay off in one way another i think that helps a lot of the time
indeed and that ten stop into if the if the lenoin is person is doing this or not denis but be like if they become kind of complacent in
not recognising how much they they they appreciate the volunteers you know like if they're dislikes business as usual you know and for
cominetto kind of it kind of maying and the you know then it just gets kind of kind of blood you know like it isn't not to pay off that the
shave you know but until had to keep that point keep em in the game next quest do i need to keep training jogsi hate it i mean can i just
live my life the way i think it should be which is the health energy and become becoming a force of nature as a doctor without dreaming up
at some invisible enemies on the street that i've yet to come across and preparing in spending my pittance of ledge of a wage on lessons
that i hate in every sort of ways for some innate might be avoided to school class if i learn to use the wit and save him my money to move
into a good neighborhood and i've been successful in preventing physical clashes to a cur i'd learnt basic ways to escape the mouth i can
run in fairly strong isn't that enough okay so ye brown um cadgers not the many of lifepartnership i find digito very enjoyable i get a lot
out of it beyond physical training beyond self defence as i get a lot out of it and i ply in all different sorts of realms in my life ah
but if you hate it and anne you've learned some basic ways to defend yourself i escape them out and may be some basic guards type stuff
then then okay i mean then step away he shouldn't be going through life doing something that you hate i for you i were you i'd still train
occasionally even if it's just like ants every two or three weeks once a month just to keep some of the ideas fresh and also also there's
always the possibility that all quick in your head and you realize this there's like a magical thing that you could get out of the jugerum
it in like waking up a waking up at four thirty in the morning that let's time i wake up and in firstline ically predisposed to sleep less
than most people and for instance we descenda light saving time and the end so and i went to bed so i sat back my clock and it was it was
like nine forty at night the wind for ten forty when i was going to bed a set back my clock and now it's nine forty at a sad all corn you
know all sleep extra hour hum we know it's on their whole up like two forty eight here and then i i laid in bed saying no sleep more sleep
more mark and do it so on other better free thirty but that's that's me and and and that's that's just me and kittens what your schedule as
it depends on what your genetic make up is for sleep and if you work the night shift that obviously you're working at four thirty in the
morning or you're getting off at war of workin forthermore to the distant work in it cried put that cabaton pretty much everything that i
say like my work out the what i eat um everyone's little bit different and i like what i like and that i do what i do and it works for me
and you can try it then if you come up with something that's better i'll listen to you am and hate same with you get to marie had it then
you know maybe it's not for you and and and you know what i would i truly think might my true thought is it beneficial for you yesterday
you stop doing everything that you don't like but it because you don't like it no i mean there's something you should press on sedout i
should every one have a fundamental level of knowledge of gittins very very beneficial ye ah but if you hated and and you've kinda come not
conclusion then don't do it yea and in an i think also once you give yourself that out once you give yourself the out and you not forcing
yourself to do any more yes it might open up your mind to actually enjoy it and try it and not be miserable about it yes yes that's the
actuating one's be their proudly and atanasio this some bell don't like it straight up my god i cept that i know i know but that being said
there is a possibility that the environment that this person or that people train in some times will make you not like it and it's not
necessarily the juice don't like sure not it whined up that way you don't like joindre because you were kind of you don't push in the wrong
direction as far as like what you do like in the like so you could try different school tried to rentrais goosie i said earlier to day as
some schools are really strict and rigid and maybe that's booby better for you some schools are real wild than there's no one control maybe
that that rebutters goldening where your personality is ah some people like that regiment and vironment he the ayacadu definitely try
different school but again i think i think the mental here become over is you've told yourself that you have to do it and now taisant have
to do if you don't want to but certain in any say triton school it it's the environment that you train it so the schools or the impitent
forsure but it's like training partner as it's like the which in wind up as the pressure you put in yourself it's like everything you know
the whole environment so i know that and people are different people to some people they want that pressure they want people yelling in a
like remorante you like when you start coaching either me won't just in training you know like you'll get fired out when you see two people
training whatever and you'll be like you asano's start colin it's almost like you're like as a friend you're doing it like this for fun and
you're like oh he do this and you usually coach up the other guy when i'm rolling with em and that other guy on one's giving coach by
jocosely turns up the head and oi don't like them cause it's now it's like a tame i don't you i don't like that at all for but some people
do like that on people they'd get some fire of you get some more in the game you know got em same people are different so the possibility
is said dis guy happens to be in the wrong environment for gito for for hip for duty for her himself yes exactly i so as a possibility and
just like i said if you don't he he could very well be putting that pressure on himself like you have to go and everyone saying how great
it is and it's the best thing and if you don't show to practice your back and your lame or get on her a hundred you know like if you get
told all the time it's the best thing in the world and then you show up there and you get beat up which is what happens in etonian nor your
how does every one like this ye this doesn't feel good to me an you's goin to negative mind set runners ould be careful about and that's
not to mention when you even imply that you don't necessarily like it oh you're could you saw a coester this or your weaker you're whatever
you're in lacker likeable negativity you know is going to turn you off even more so now yet you hate it now here which which there is a
riarity of it is some some things don't agree with some people right that in that a reality like there's some things in the world that that
i don't i i i i i just don't like them like when we you're driving to lay your plans some music some of the music that your playing is its
popular music i i i just don't like it i just don't like it and and there's other things like that nor am treating of things that i just
just like other people like them and i just don't like the i just don't poleon go that's what the rarely lit i mean i don't i never even
thought about pulling a roses like a cool idea you got you look for things on your phone i mean well i'm not that's not the type of thing
that a packet about um you know i get an sing at the club i mean i i i don't care about him trying to think of something that some i guess
music is the best is one of the best examples for me is is you know i hate the certain tides emus ic certain artists if a lafaele's
honeylike hair metal from the nine elegit likes an e and an i like legit do not like it and and there i you the reason that a good example
is because that's not far off from canoes that i do like i i i mean i like i like led zapponi mean i love legs apple right led the ones
awesome and and the step from led acland to to to poison i mean you could you they could be in the same record category in the store right
rock and roll i led zapponi love i poison kind of turns my stomach i i hate it to and so that an example of so some things that just don't
sit well with you eh and and maybe juicoot sit well with his guy now am like i said i think it's a lot of batistin didn't a lot out of it
tried different environment but if you hate it don't make for yourself to do it open open i escape it give yourself a out and that allows
you to feel more comfortable canyou feel trapped every one feel at a quarter animal and in a opened off yes you even be doing like hay
ye'se guys everyone your gerontal about your gusumana try it yet and i your first day you don't like it but you as a common to keep doing
it because everyone saying it's great and you just end up in a bad way ye so be careful thou o yes you're kind of trap to with it with the
junk parts of it i then that kind of came about and yet and you can't really skip it than you're like rebel against it if jack ah member
one were driving up to la is plain carry by europe that is actually technically eighties hair madaline for sure be really mad yea not
telling you that music of the said well with me for some reason you got little veetonia to lay like lake like metallica lay flat backs
aberthwaite too he likes rocking band siyeh for some reason there some genetic coat and his head that poisons cool yeelding goethean hole
yes but then i guess on the other in the spectrum you get tweet in a music that lay and light like lave lepante panters a hard band now i
go one step further than ten terrorise and torn some of these that i listened to him ah which i think leaves lay for a little bit where he
wouldn't listen to some of the harder music that i wasn't to be panthers you know brushing up against it he do ye listen to soft music
tomorrow you consider softness some some at one something about losing oonoothi soft kowatin seeing i i'd say white buffalo white balooka
his horrd acoustic music but the one he's got some pretty mills on keaton calm love song number one was it about the likely izzy is it like
romantic you know as he opiates lalalalala girl or something like that i would say yes yes i kenneticook you know how like we have and that
not out at and now because you know how like that like a mataika for he unblithe have unforgiven right so it sounds softer but they're
still talking about hard stuff car and the net like enter stand man which is ocellatus i'm just not know my archers no bluelight do you
like what about lizele by wiles you still talking about like these are soft things like you know kay saw slain algero remember remember now
jerry and your life it was to off what sestieri four men at me dereliction you let this and no no no you know what though actually i play
another song ah who was it is a josh rat in or something in your like hate is his pretty good i was very surprised it was a soft song ever
do you remember that's the well my moosical taste are very ye ever type vises so i guess what i was a omisimus don't like ye i i sometimes
wonder with you like it if you are the time you well some people do they just just i like music the not i'm not saying me imitator in
people they are into justless pacific type of music that her that's the whole reason for music in their heads is like this very specific
feeling like some people the um that i no before they they only like house music the on like anything other thou music naisi it's just fell
breathless into nothing so as wondering if you are like kannakin nowhere siena different countries are well least just not maybe not all
different yet at all kay you're right i listen to a winedrinkers types sure as all not algitha i forget the song but it was a conferva to a
later time for i next question about that from ing i panted avolio hates you did to that kind crazy they had to bobabu it's great it's not
that rare yet makes sense it told me makin the in a is actually talking with you dave carrier i know who that is at empoli was up with him
up in san francisco area yesterday and we were talking about how some people don't like it cogitatin think even people that are you would
think would like to get to people that have jobs that you do to be really beneficial for them to know you they don't like you get to you
and and so and i was saying that i introduced a lot of people to gigito of people to give not many of them have actually stuck with it for
a long period of time yes but and an so it's not that rare for people to not like cogitandi a a digelent speaking with the cogitator it's
not like to thing there provided is a one o your eyes ye have it between not like an edition actually sticking with it yes yes olaguer i
hate it do i not that a little bit more powerful yet amen yeah yet it lay definitely doesn't like hell don't speak with it for the most
right tissot guess on my prayer let you like disappoint ye like beer may they they don't like it enough un in honour pinemount to moment
basis to to get off the couch and go that's kind of journal is one of those situations decession jocko i've a question after reading your
book which i thought was one of the best books i've read since your last book i i am curious what what you did during your selten days to
maintain your your schedule as i would imagine in the teams your schedule changes at any minute to include you being deployed or active
during your various missions that night so as in life how do you keep your balance of your schedule when do we call in your book you say
keep your schedule but how did you work through this when you would be on a mission that dinalays eep at night did you still did you still
the following day upon return maintain your normal schedule recitatives onset yeah obviously the teams that your schedule matines can vary
a lot and you have to adopt to what makes sense and sometimes in the team to work on eighteen twenty hour days sometimes out to field
you're going to the field for two three four five days at a time at some time for working for twenty four hours a day or you work for
thirty six hours straight because you deplaning about he was so that cabralist mes you're doing dies you're doing two dies a day and that
takes a bunch of time and he takes a whole on you it's hard work i guess you could say um sometimes will run in around all day or all night
brundon the desert runner round the urban training facility and so i schedule changing all the time and is the same with thing with
business the same thing would business right now i travel in the fight bearleigh be later of work all day are the dinner with the clients
of the interview with the writing of the thereon of the podcast the changing times one in things just change and so on what i do yes i try
and i try and keep the schedules much as i can and if i fall off the schedule for whatever is not get back all on it as quickly as possible
and i i think so so yes you do the best you can i think the main thing here for watch out for it is letting letting a change in schedule or
a problem in your schedule b excuse to fall off the path niata what you have to watch out for um then we think oh amandine times one i have
got jet lag or i didn't sleep well or any dress for travelling or i did this the other night and saw in going to see until nine thirty to
morrow morning and tis colic good that's what you have to watch out or not sometimes you need to work to live these septanti ty to
sometimes you do sometimes you stayed up for thirty e hours you go to bed at three o'clock in the morning just what you might need to see
it to nine thirty that's cool good do it yes and sleep um batiste careful of using it as an excuse to go way off the path and just ca
yourself back on the path as soon as possible makes an yes sir yes that's all merit there like one little thing in my haseltine's gone i'll
do to morrow the gottingue for that a speakingthat good for courtin orestean more thing that i wanted to cootting a lot of i get a lot of
really a great emails i algea lot of great um messages through social media letters written letters a get all those kinds of things and i
appreciate them all i i i don't always respond all the cases i i i physically cannot do it and of course you know oh get some one to manage
you showed a or whatever not doing that on if you hear back from me you hear from me not from somebody that i paid ten dollars an hour to
respond to my stuff and say cool after it like no go not doing that but too get i'd get all the things that i do read them so if you send
it i read it and so i appreciate the feed back and everything i got one now that i that was good i wanted to actually won to read on here
because i felt that i not only said he thanks for you know the podcast or whatever tention books would ever it it actually gave some pretty
good method algy and really an innocent into a mind set that i think will help people doing what they're doing so here we go mister
willingest wanted to share a quick story with you at thirty nine i had fallen into a fifteen year rout of undisciplined alcoholism i was
soft and heavy and wanted a change earlier this year i had started working out free to four times a week in my basement i was trying and
failing to get a hand along my alcohol abuse every failure made the beast seemed bigger and unbeatable it was like i didn't have control
over my body i finished your book all amanda night and decided that i would get up early the next morning and work out i got up and worked
out not much but i just wanted to do something set up push up fifteen minutes on the bike worked out twice tuesday got up wednesday and did
it again got the thursday night or normal drinking night and decided to try not drinking made it through friday same thing worked out
morning and night stayed busy and stayed away from the drink for i should try and push it through the week end worked out saturday morning
took the rest of weekend often stayed dry monday morning i got up and started two days again made it through the week with eleven work out
by the second week i felt better than i had in my entire life i was astounded that normale walked round feeling this good i guess not
systematically poisoning your body will do that in the fifth week i got a project at work there was going to require travelling for the
next eight weeks i was worried about overcoming my triggers and rode habits but normal traveling evening was dinner watchcase and drink
egbert to my surprise the hotel at a sweet jim cool i'll just keep doing what i'm doing then at the sight i found out that were we would
start work at six a m dam that means i have to get up at four to work out i'm twelve weeks into my travelling to a days usually getting
eleven to twelve work out a week they recently moved to start time to seven a m so now i get an hour and a half in the morning and evening
in sixteen weeks clean dropped thirty pounds or more hasn't been on a scale in three weeks thirty four west gene's pang off of me by sit up
and pushed it sets when for ten to forty to fifty kanadaw went from thirty five by ten to fifty by fifteen i started elorn how to run as i
haven't done it unto henty years now after a day off i can do two miles without stopping i do for a five miles on the treadmill and nine
miles on the bike besides the sit up push up cattle bells core and waits i look forward to next year's competitive shooting season i'm
going to bring it at this point my cravings are gone and actually recoil from the smell of booze when i started this i thought it would be
temporary now it's going to be permanent no reason to waste time with it any more now when i questioned something your voice comes to me
with the hard answer it's only black and white with no gray area one day when i'm standing before the lord lord and here is voice leydon
found like yours i might be disappointed the book i read those months ago was the way of the war your kid i'm working on extreme ownership
now thank you for your service thank you for producing a bad as pot cast then you for influencing my life so there you go an i i say this
to people all we time most important here is it isn't me it's you and sure you may have grabbed some little foothold from the pot
gastronome of the books but it isn't me that changes you it's you you set the small gold you achieve those goals then set some more and
achieve those and set some more goals may be a little bit bigger but not that much bigger he pay attention to the progress this guy is
sixteen weeks deep thirty pounds lighter working harbor stronger faster more efficient competitive the individual that wrote that is
getting after it and changing his life and you can do tistarstar small start with changing to morrow morning just to morrow morning get
that squared away the men move on to the next day and the next in moveor life to a better place one little step one little victory at a
time appreciate the letter and i think that's all i've got for to night so echo speaking of people getting better stronger and faster and
actually supporting the pocket if they wanted to that sir do you have any suggestions for us sure of course that deal i can talk about the
that that organ as a nuketon out good or i don't know that the name of the guinea'll give have names no like the origin does the alien he
that the cool name to better as you but this one is called i think this discipline i think they got cold disenthralled discipline yet not
the discipline distraite opeecue called back sure do you check it out origin men do commit yeah surprisingly staticly great as i would say
it's a i would say it's probably is the german use like one brand on it randering is it kind of it fits it's your brand okay sure
unfinished jo he yet totally does it um it's like yet it's not the kind where you ellicombe like you sell kanemon tell there's like all
these bells and whistles if for no decoration as you go on i ever the good word the decorations yea yea a sultan on the confectory here's
the thing now there are some tarsome ah i shall say function all decorations now that's not actually a good word for anyway it it looks
cool says that way i looked cool and well may silly oh can a lighter late one for functionality but also none the less a look at it i got
away one in it at the back on how do you know it or of both ye i'm sure you have both the same store in on the black one but that's a long
story none the less it's a good one and a lot like back when we first start to every one would ask them not a oosoever one but a lot of
people here you know i don't like to hear you who were now estateholders a very sour some people but the thing is a lot for though as i e a
lot as you langelinie they are making the disclaimer it was a lot of people at onriddle old you know my little brother asked me once and
then at him he again it was it's a lot of people maybe totems a week two times a week for two years by the way that's a lot of people
easing the same exact question etoway they ask like all what can a echtge a whatever and now there is like a origin geese and then now i'm
saying get this one is is the one sure you do i i don't know that all wear any other gee i'm not saying it won't an't just seen i don't
know that i go and actually i don't know if you know this do you know that they're going to sell this key and a certain number of em four
hundred you're going to get a copy of this genial freedom feels manual athanasie do i signal you want a silent one that he and the bell
like little little pergolese will vesiculae yeh if you're in a mating together he do to hang ollie hang it on hang up the net and pepito
hate you like that one not question to day yeah hopefully loved you to two most likely all objectors yes hopefully yeah you getting as this
flame whose freedom he is a disinured get or just tissimee danesh's good do ye tells em it's good embroidered as it american make he and it
is made in the american like all the words and stuff but i yeh that's a good one i look at alonged down if you still looking for a dead get
do dannion for he just look at his brain and pick worth the shot on toward or he's going to get the give in to his not training you to an
avenacae i have i didn't respond to brand and beresford right now get the gee and trains you giralda's the kind where he's gonna he's going
by the way yelegant the it's like ye but in tringoides you on come on i give that's my bed no would i almost impaling ing him to prove me
wrong that's how my areaway now who to every one that he could do a hundred berries in ten minutes as halfords heard from yet but he did it
yet and that's his a reason gallenmeier the mat yeah he's gonna you can't just get the genyewine this goes fut pretty much any like
legitimate gwen you put it on your easilier like omer em like we we did it man like a dinner happens all the time when you had you put on
the gate osaient or crab i drive it you're like one i mean of inanition with a tone ortomobiles right girl this and this key no different
in fact it might even have that even more in that feeling he we should on the less ah yes folco from organ if he didn't already pick that
part up or in man dot com is a lot of giselher even if you want to get another one other than the you on i do i have all the patches that
you know how like like knockowen and do it all the bougive you like vineleaf like that i'm no to have all of them an make all of them how
many you have about twelve okay because i have like ninety i'm got it on my olivarum fire departments police parents military units all
over the country foreign ye got a lot of stuff ye would be a big gie ye the taffy multiple evitate black annahookline tollot a patch esogee
yea and this certain place you can't really put them too so that even liveanu i'm doing it i'm doing already in it and if i run out of
space and getting another gee boom i'm gonna keep it going i do kind of risk people saying hey you're not onfortunate you were in that
patch like some tsetse to me seem like you like you can be a nasal one like that are you shot should i do even wearing this path teeterin
at masada i'm going to wear it it was a for my friends and at everyone in a bactrian or did that's all american made stuff from the coin
out of the groun american to the factory american factory he in america in manmaker make the clothing make the geese make the rash guards
make the will to them some bags some teeterin bags and what not excess resembles called accessories yet i like beanes and tether all made
in america yet i think when it will jortiter in that i think he liked it dear even though you're not a mere they all end in the supplements
yea from organ labs yet those jocose so here's a thing i militia'll go into the details later but super curler is a legitimate difference
between tuberculin regular croil there is in its very beneficial in not say right now but just no super crill jocelyn joint warfare jocobin
for you joints supplements don't jackechan out with it lest estufa from the beginning that the main supplements you know joint stuff creil
you're the number one reason not even the number in the only reason i started taking it and i'm kind of man aeditor near you'd behind ye
and now you got your own one which is even better they superetur as a matter ye but it's not just a name not in the adjoint warfare the
geoffery asa lissome magic in it sure in my opinion sure and any my shoulders opinion the end left shoulder both of my shoulders my back
and my elbows they ordain to come as a place to go also some of the gitimate fitness care if one knows him into cattle bells now i get my
from one to the cool wind straight up that's it i don't think i could go back to regular cabell my opinions the where will be the big foot
ninety pounds two pounds have heard than jocoseria bell every rat i think jorneys impressed with that to mother watee was edricson of my
falals all sorry on it dot com slashed jocasta's the one the good spaniels good way to support when you buy books that jacares i guess
technically i kind o help reviewing a real kinteaine helayna very compelling books when you get him going through the website jackpot cast
up come little tab on the top says book from boast there by the book so there that's a good way to support to get out the sun shot the
introducta you prime one day shipping whatever you choose just like anything else but go through that the bigwigs and do in the other shop
a pedo carrion good wishfort also sub scrapped about gas on i tonseca foley depending on what kind of platform you prefer or is available
to you cause i politik done and had stitchit no my afflarat alway no and dried doesn't have alsi don't know a bull you don't think you
could listen to it i don't maybe anunther i don't know but you can get it man yet you had cast is out there you can subscribe to it the
point is the scribe to yes yes i scribonia to god we verifie want if you're in the mood libreas supprime to it onoto the video version of
this potassio still an it a still do get the the whole thing like all echo udn't look like you sound m and i remember changesoften away
look among you now get skinny yeah get me last jack that is a and is kind of an intuitive very entercourse one out of every twenty two
comments is echoes jackeroo eatin is because you wouldn't think that you could determine what some one looks like by what they sound like
but it feels like you can i think a lot of time you can have on now though actually now you think about like talk show host on radio and
yet you don't know what dad can can't he guess it so it's it's i it's harder to do than you think yes if you like you can delegacion as
like the dundonald voice you think they's huge or something or the like something like that it necessarily true yes that's true all
remember that sin fell on no very lesage she i think i'll lan who's the girl and the hutlet she's like oh he had a a good looking voice of
something like the sound edle he was good looking and i omnigerentual ah it allange i think you was surely not or at all calloused her
leember it yet the analogy at remember it but it reminded me of that in the last inway you to subscribe etoges the point there regardless
of if you want to know what i look like or not do even matter what i look like really barely maybe a little bit i guess maybe i should
because if i see you i'll in the wild it'll you know we are recognize each other if you know i look like betteredge there is times when
people will recognize you and you'll like say oh ye this is acetanilide in their valor life we are you sure that it is a real kaaping on
incomes that is for sure a real like i know her sir this listened that's cool and i did it but if you want a void that kind of situation
subscribed to you too good way to do it and could with a support also jocks a store a cold jocatore jules stored up come we have to shirts
on the if ye want these te shirts i'm wearing my good the shirt very ninon this on you on idiotical like a really i galilae stood by the
way it good is backwards to look at in the mirror that messages for you if you think about the whole message of good i mean i know you said
it you know all you are like good kintang what you are a kine but he guys had the the luxury of you being there to be able to explain it if
a ongoing through like something hard it's you can't just automatically just say good it kind o comes off kind of weird he put tentily
that's why i put this backwards because it's like you tell you shall good he soon saying that's the layer that's the little insight to the
layer matagorde an i'm not going again to any of the other exclamations for the other layers but just now that they have later all the
clothing cling alastor a po check it out on noting a bi something's conder look on there if you like something get something good
wittepoort this whim stuff on there the shirts like i said some patches rash gards forty gitar anything physical cycling anything requiring
brenoit maybe some compression situations high athetic value but not too high because it's more about functionality has my take on the
whole do but they do look at ann they have lairs who is there in being shipped out right now ternay doyouknow janisary well we are in
california so he let all go that time at the odal you know you got your old one so good oh feathers so lies on their otiore kids rash
guards are coming boom cause people have been asking me about that as i wore one now like a test one and iron one well trained de ber and
the like all worries card you know whenever but i'll try to narrow down kind of the hollows and stuff but they are narrow down and they
should be available within the next we can ask where those mad those are made all in america all in america workers cards also there
another kind of cool fun one but don't know about don until nat also good way to support yourself psycologie warfare if you do know what
that is it's an able with tracks jacatra and there are two e in yeven of uniting aid your campaigning in sweetness on your path on
upathakas his eting about the path is not always going to be easy you'm saying i know it or so yet every day man this is not a one day gig
this is an every day every day is a monday on the path persii will say this to iaso and you you read the the letter for the guy with with
drinking i have i could relate to that deeply deeply could relate to that and in a way and i don't be to deep into it but in a way the my
situation was in a way harder because the drinking wasn't preventing me from working out it wasn't prevent it me from doing like a lot of
stuff i was only preventing me from doing my handful of things and is what those things are really wanted to do but it was really
preventing me oraas put it this it was making it super difficult and then just a fact of like the drinking everything day you know and he
and the more you do you know how you belegete routine it on some whitsome thing but the harder it the harder it is to destroy a break that
routine specially when it provides the paths like drinking does chemically i mean your like when you drink it to the instant ate as he
olearon thermal no long turned like not even proportionately more beneficial to to to stop drinking like you know when he said oh while
this is how every day people walk around you good have the holy really i see no hallstatt great that so true that's exactly what i thought
a tang the wanderdering these fit jocatore right so no one a jackass doing all this stuff i could i could do all that stuff do i i you feel
in eternum doing all this stuff to the whole to say that's the feeling liking i could dig it a point is when you're on the spot is not
always easy but psychologic warpers there to get you through those difficult parts parts that you admit or that you can admit that you need
may be a little little push will help little spot we can up early procrastinating that a big one skipping the work out that kind of stuff
psychological warfare at so that the track for every little weakness he might encounter keeping the die or or or slacking on the diet is a
good one and by a checked out n out and ah you don't see what i could with a bore yourself he nearer on the path when you're on the path
and potboys well all so you can get some cockaine tea which tastes like victory and will make you feel really good you get the imason the
books weighed or your kid normal one which we just covered obviously it is not just a book for kids ye uncle jake as something to teach all
of us myself included for adults and this anyone else that wants did have a better life can add some but where the word go which and i am
i'm on the cycle i just read it or an over again like a just like a routine guadagnare a yes for now i should get here yet ah but the this
little things in there that it's like this is really good that he's kids are getting this and this message because it stuffed that
ostentatur like ding and never really even though you know it like okayanni is wit is when you're like how do you expect to be good at
something if you don't practice like little jabowski's don't know that it don't they straight up don't now and guerassimof kind o forget
that and i and on we absolutely do ye so ye he is it's for sure there's a lot in that book and if sometimes i read that book and i and
intervene in there they even recognized ye in is the cause i did it the lessons that are coming out of my head they're so important though
i beyond my own comprehension yet i was just explaining the book away the warrior kid too which is going to come out and i was i was de
talking through a a with a guy yesterday what it's about and as an explaining everything that it's about if a lot o stuff all loto million
portant lesson he um but yet cartoleto warrior kid the second orror kid buckle be out april twenty eighth two thousand eighteen actually
speaking of books there is extreme ownership a new edition a new edition is out it's not a totally new buckets a new edition of it is a
onnable november twenty first you can get it for preordain now on em as on if you wanted em it's got a new forward and i so solatair a new
forward it has some color pictures in it am also the dignetur is black we change the cover from white to black why because bocksteil cooler
way cooler iaso and this is interesting this a new cue in a section in the back of the book that is actually from this pot cast so i kin
around it up the most prominent leadership questions that that that we answer on this poast and rode him up and kind had it had it him a
little bit to make sure that they made sense with without everything was octamund without the tone and the the pacing of what's being said
tied adamoli tle bit but that there there what the what the answers were given on this poast and their all from every one's questions so
every one ah appreciate the question everyone that was set epochas you help us right this next section of this book eleachas is in it as
the question ask her so at cochelet's he isn't the book and a folded up if you're on now too there's the new book right there boom this
woorry extreme ownership available november twenty first also you can get the book dispinsed om feels manual it's a man neferet ing after
it so if you want to get after it gegentheil just when he was freedom fox and actions there both in there it's being dry again getting
great feedback appreciate everyone's feet back it's pretty straightforward book no fluff involved not not making you read a bunch of wersey
point sir here's my point no you can get it anywhere on the tythe sell books including obviously amazon bornand can get it out omar by the
way target the publisher ship it out the everywhere so you can pick it up it's a good book to give to people in my opinion it's it's it's
not just like giving some one a book you're giving them something a little bit more than a book it cantelled something a little bit more
than the book is asked out and of a can't i can't explain it too well right now look at it yes you ain't an look at it it's it's not normal
i would say is not normal um if you want the audivero of that book which a lot of people been asking about the audio version is available
it is not an audible and it is not going to be an audible it is made and we put it together echo directed in produced the album that also
has tracks sir an album with tracks and its available as imphe anywhere that you can get and be three tracks for sale i tones amazon loose
music group wherever whenever empyree platform you ouise you can find it there and if you like the leadership principles that we talk about
on this poesin you want to get them for your team or your business we have a leadership in management consulting company it's called
ascalon front it's me it's laffat's j p donal it's dave birk you can email in potasalager do come you can check up the website ashen front
do come and if you have more questions or you have answers to the questions that we covered that are better than the answers that we gave
to day an you an a share with us that be cool i want to learn you can find us were actually on the interests and twere on instigates bore a
echoes at echo charles and i m at jackall and closed out i want to say thanks to our military that's out there on the front lines i
recently got reports of ices in iraq sending kids to to surrender to coalition forces but they've been laden with suicide balms and rigolo
up and as these kids would approach the areas satisfide for surrender to american forces they would emerica would see that terror in their
eyes and realized that there were something wrong and american military men especially explosive ornaes technicians would risk their lives
time and time again to go disarm these bombs risky their lives that these young children can live who who even does that coltel you
america's service men and women they are the finest and we thank them for their service and sacrifice and to police and lanforre fire
fighters paramedics other first responder thank you for doing your job extremely difficult often thankless keep in a safe here on the home
front and to everyone else that is listening remember this if there something in your life that you want to change than change it you have
control and if you don't think you have control than take control get a grip on your life and start getting after it so until next time
this is echo and jocko oh
